What is an example of something that cannot be learned according to their research on pseudorandom number generators?
What is the result of the match between ITA Cup and the Tartan Men's Tennis team on October 12, 2023?
Are elective courses from other Schools at Carnegie Mellon allowed for SCS CMU students?
 What role does CLIP play in the proposed approach, PICL?
What is the main point of the text?
 In multilingual modeling, what shows improvements compared with sharing everything in an RNN NMT model?
Who are the instructors at Instructor X's course?
Where can students find additional resources during their tenure at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the two professors teaching 'Behavioral Economics of Poverty and Development'?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in CFA A10?
What information can be found on the University Police Department's website?
What are the expectations regarding proper conduct in terms of academic integrity mentioned in this text?
 What is one of the limitations mentioned in the text regarding the training of models?
What is the name of the class taught by Rohrbach at 12:00 PM on Friday in MM 107?
What is the course name of Independent Study in Sound Studies 3-9 B?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching Advanced Independent Study D TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors for each individual music studies studio mentioned in the text?
What is Carnegie Mellon's commitment to campus life?
How many athletes from the team earned All-Academic Honor from USTFCCCA?
What is the location of the Digital Art Studio B(Entertainment Design Studio II) course?
 What is the foundational idea behind frameworks that focus on instance-level prediction in MIL?
What are the meeting times, location, and instructor for Special Topics: Fundamentals of Programming for Engineering Systems: 12.0?
What are the days and times for the Costume Design F class?
What is the name of the student-athlete who was named as the CMU Student-Athlete of the Week for Feb. 19 - Feb. 25?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Feb/25?
When and where are the first class session for Business Leadership Endeavor II taking place?
How can students find more information about graduate financial aid at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the locations of all classes listed in the schedule?
 What do the meta-evaluation results in Table 5 show for PaLM-2 BISON and UNICORN prompted with AUTOMQM?
What was the reason for Habermann being 'at the breaking point', according to his memo to CMU President Dick Cyert?
What is the course code for Elementary Russian II?
 What are the two nonlinear operators defined in the text?
What is the URL of the official website for Carnegie Mellon University Track & Field, as per the information provided on this Facebook page?
In what room is Advanced Computing and Problem Solving in Civil and Environmental Engineering being taught?
 What method is used to adjust the computational cost of a trained I3D model at inference time?
What time does Halley Z's class start and end?
 How do the counterfactual contexts in COBRACORPUS-CF invert the offensiveness of the statements?
What are the names of the two courses being offered by Eshelman in PCA 305 at 11:00 AM on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study: Area 1-48 A in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the institution where Galbraith teaches?
What is the name of the organization that was previously known as AI?
What is the name of the course taught by Newman?
How do all of Dr. Reddy's projects relate to each other?
What is the name of the course that will be held in PCA A16 at 2:00 PM?
 Why did the method of advancing the whole batch by the minimum predicted duration result in increased insertion errors?
What is the degree research being conducted by Master's Degree Research 0-99 A?
 What is the key difference between MQTTS and other TTS models?
Who teaches the course 'Selection and Performance of Materials 6.0 A3 MW'?
What are the days and times for Design of Artificial Intelligence Products?
Where is the location of McGhee's music studies studio?
How many credits does Gruzska's Interdisciplinary Independent Study have?
What is the role of Office of Research Integrity & Compliance in ensuring ethical research practices?
What is the name of the course taught by Blanton at what time on Tuesday and Thursday?
What kind of spiritual and religious practice opportunities are available for students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course option II for M.S. Graduate Project at Bain's 18981?
 How can beginners start programming?
What is the name of the first course?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'ETC Interdisciplinary Project II'?
What is the course name and instructor for Microstructure and Properties I (course code 27301)?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of Haden's class and when does it meet?
What is the name of Fang's first course?
Where can students find more information about the Language Technologies Institute?
When is the UAA Championship taking place and where is it located?
What is the purpose of the Advanced Training Programs offered by this institution?
What is the email address for Murphy Austin?
Who are the instructors for each of the lighting design sessions?
Why was there confusion over naming the school?
Who taught the course 'Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Hype for Types 3.0'?
 Which model achieved 86.1% accuracy in the Shikra InstructBLIP∗ 7B category according to the results in the text?
 Why is understanding figurative language important in linguistic communication?
 What is the batch size set for the downstream model training?
What is the course code for Studies in Chinese Literature: The Enchanting World of Chinese Ghost Tales & Ctr?
Does Carnegie Mellon have a drug policy?
What is the format for a student's five-year schedule in Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
Where is Graham Neubig's office located?
Where is Costume Crafts: Theatrical Armor held?
 What is the improvement in performance on the HPRC dataset?
What is the course name for 57608?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:30 PM on Friday in room TEP 2202?
What is the course code for MHCI Project 1 offered on Wednesday at 11:00 AM?
Where are ENGAGE in Wellness: Looking Inward and ENGAGE in Wellness: Looking Outward courses located?
 Which techniques did C. P. Narisetty, T. Hayashi, R. Ishizaki et al. leverage for audio captioning?
When and where does Srinivasan teach Managing People and Teams: Managing People and Teams?
What is the position of player number 17 on the team?
Why is it important for a student to choose their advisor carefully?
What is the course number for Software & Societal Systems 17200?
What does OIE stand for in the context of CMU?
What is the course name for class D W 07:00PM 08:20PM?
Where is Instructor's course located?
 What is the title of Reference [9] mentioned in the text?
 What testing library is used to enable local tests for application components?
What is the difference between iCalendar and RSS Feed?
What is the course code for Zeg's Interaction and Expression using Pausch Bridge Lighting class?
 What is the purpose of using the Ted Talks corpus for the out-of-domain test set?
Who teaches Law in Pittsburgh?
What kind of workshops can be signed up for at the library?
What is the proficiency requirement for LTI Ph.D. students?
What was the date of the text where Yang was honored by UAA?
What are the names of the independent study classes being offered by various instructors at PCA?
What are the class timings for Figure Drawing?
 How is the time resolution affected by downsampling in OWSM v3?
When does Bowling's 'Advanced DP3: Drawing' class take place?
 What interaction history is used for training set prediction?
 What are some examples of adverse weather conditions included in the studies mentioned in the text?
When and where does Project Management take place?
Who teaches the course titled 'Matrices and Linear Transformations' on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:00 AM to 9:50 AM in room MM 103?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
Can you find information about aerobics classes and fitness workshops in the University Center?
Who is the instructor for 'Production Prep: Grown Ups Costume Production'?
When and where does the lecture on Interaction and Expression using the Pausch Bridge Lighting take place?
 Why is quantifying the temporal variability of solar PV and wind energy crucial for planning energy sources?
What is the phone number of the institute mentioned in the text?
What is the maximum number of semesters a student can pursue their master's degree as part-time students?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
Who needs to complete Form I-9 within 3 business days of beginning work for any type of compensation?
What happens if a student is exempt from a required course due to prior courses or experience?
When are Tilton's classes held?
What type of camp is the Softball Camp Prospect Camp?
What is the course code for Criminal Justice: 3.0?
How can PhD students get access to the LTI computer cluster?
What sport did the Athletes of the Week play at Emory University?
What are the days and times of the Theater Management course?
 What is noted about the base models in comparison to their corresponding large versions?
Who are the instructors for Solfege I class?
What are the names of the teachers listed for MWF classes at GHC?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered in The Arts in Qatar?
What is the publication information for the text?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
What is the name of the course being offered in this text?
When did the Tartans celebrate their seniors before entertaining #22 Emory?
Who is Chenyan Xiong?
What is the name of the field that Professor Rosé grounds her research in?
 How was the data curated for the ACL60/60 evaluation sets?
What is the time of the Doha, Qatar class?
Did NEWELL attend any meeting to discuss the formation of Carnegie Tech's Computer Science Department?
 In which months do both GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product show low values of dust column concentration in the Sub-Sahel region?
What is the role of alumni in Black and Latinx Athlete Coalition (BLAC)?
 What is the purpose of the 2-shot prompting examples for GPT-3.5 in the Formality section?
Who are the instructors at Instructor TBA H and I in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does A.4 stand for in the handbook?
Who is teaching the course 'Brass Methods'?
Who are the instructors for the Graduate Seminar and Advanced Systems Neuroscience courses?
What is the purpose of safeguarding educational equity according to the text?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study in Lighting Design?
 What correlation coefficient and RMSE value are obtained between GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product in the ICP region?
 How is the loss of prestress related to concrete compressive strength?
What are the days and times of lecture C on Algorithm Design and Analysis?
When and where does Compeau's Undergraduate Research in Computational Biology take place?
Where does Dimitriu teach AI, Society, and Humanity?
What are the names of the people who have meetings in this text starting with letters A to P and also include Ada?
What are the names of the two individuals who offer advanced music studies for Flute at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 1:30 PM to 4:20 PM?
What is the role of OIE in providing information to international students?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:30 AM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of the Leadership Development Seminar?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
What is the title of the class that starts at 12:00 PM on Monday and lasts for 9.0 hours?
Who is the instructor for Lighting Production J?
 What type of belief does the unexpected transfer test discuss?
Where does the Business Analytics Capstone take place?
 What type of architectures are mentioned as domain-specific alternatives to GPUs in the text?
 What is used as the loss function for the MixIT model in the given text?
When is the class for '54665 Production Prep: Gloria: VAR Directing A' held?
 What needs to be performed for future synchrotron experiments to use the module for calibration?
What is the course title for Phillips' 79892 History Prospectus?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon University campus community's central gathering place?
What is the location of Veterans and Military Community in the university?
How does Boss follow vehicles at a safe distance?
What should students do if they need accommodations due to pregnancy and are in course work?
What is the requirement for a draft of thesis document at LTI?
What is the name of the first course listed in the text?
What is the discount code for 20% off purchases over $100?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
What should students preparing for an ITA Certification do from the beginning of their first semester?
What is the purpose of peer-led study groups according to the Student Academic Success team?
What is the name of the course that teaches Probability and Computing?
Which department is responsible for computational biology at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
 What is the purpose of Constitutional ai model?
 What is COBRACORPUS-CF and what purpose does it serve?
What is the physical address for Carnegie Mellon University's main campus?
Where can students find the university's general withdrawal policy?
 What main finding was stated regarding the influence of region-label thresholds in Table 9?
What are the days and times that Fang is teaching Special Topics: Generative Leadership?
What are the topics covered in Types and Programming Languages?
 What is the purpose of the hypothesis testing in predictable AM identification?
What is the source of the text?
What is the name of the class that starts at 03:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday in room GHC 4211?
 How many examples are shown in Figure 12?
Where are Beginning Golf and Basketball Skills B1 classes held in the Fall 2023 semester?
 How does the length of the component affect the prestress loss according to the text?
What is the name of the university where Daniel Fried works?
When and where is Cloud Security class held?
What are the days/times for course HBH 2008 and what does it teach?
Who teaches User-Centered Research and Evaluation A?
What kind of information can students view about their housing and meal plan assignments on SIO?
What is the role of faculty advisor in guiding students through the program?
Where do students jointly enrolled in the LTI Ph.D program spend their time?
What are the names of the people involved in each event's lighting design?
In which room is lecture 2 for Introduction to Political Philosophy held?
What is the course code for Advanced DP3: Painting Matter & Substance?
Where is Computing Services located?
What type of insurance policy does Carnegie Mellon University require full-time degree-seeking students to have?
What does 'Approved Qualifying' refer to according to section 4.4?
 Which two datasets are used in the subset for continual pre-training in the text?
 What method is applied for alignment in the text?
How many units must a student take for human language, machine learning, and language technology applications breadth requirements in both Standard and Advanced Study degrees?
What are the names of the classes being offered in Production Prep for Lonely Planet?
 What is the bilevel optimization formulation of the method proposed in the text for automatic meta-learning of data importance weight?
Who should students seek guidance from regarding their program of study and degree requirements?
Who are the authors of the article 'Just Research in Psychology'?
What are the names and days/times of classes taught by Gordon K?
Who are the academic advisors for Murphy Austin, Venny Ayudiani, Priya Bagaria, Vidhisha Balachandran, Pankesh Bamotra?
Who is the captain of the Tartan Women's Golf team?
What is Graham Neubig's research goal?
 What is LFC in the context of CAPE calculation?
What is the name of the room where the 'Data Structures for Application Programmers' session takes place?
What is the main topic of section 4.6?
What is the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems (MIIS) degree?
What are the names of the two courses listed in this text?
What are the days and times for Improvisational Acting II?
What are the names of the courses listed?
What is the course name for Instructor's last name?
What does LTI stand for?
What are the names of Ramakrishnan F's classes?
Where is the main location mentioned in the text?
What are the days of the week when Design Center: Beginning Book Arts Lab is offered?
Where are Mayer, Srinivasan, and Akan teaching their courses?
What is the location of the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Saxophone?
What is the contact information provided at the end of the text?
 What is the difference in model size between v3 and v2?
What is the time slot for Stage Management's rehearsal schedule?
Who is the instructor at EA TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does the distribution of scores produced by LLMs prompted with AUTOMQM compare to the gold MQM distribution?
Which operating systems are acceptable for the laptops of MS students at SCS?
What are the names of Bizon and Kurland?
What is the name of the book being used in 'Art, Anthropology, and Empire'?
What are the two time slots mentioned in the text where media design work will be done for Penelope?
Who encouraged Rick Rashid to take a basic course in Algol-W programming language?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Instructor Kelly?
When does Elementary Guided Teaching take place?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
What are the days and times for Professional and Technical Writing?
What are the restrictions on course requirements for MLT degree attainment?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:30PM on Thursdays?
What are the days and times when Intermediate French I is taught?
What is the name of the team showcased on this page?
 Which optimizer was used for training the TTS model?
What is the purpose of Office of Research Integrity & Compliance?
What are the course codes for Cox-Boyd's Senior Thesis and Graduate Core Course?
When and where does Ethics and Artificial Intelligence take place?
Does completion of the MCDS degree guarantee admission into any doctoral degree program at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course that covers Advanced Relational Database Management?
What is the purpose of this university policy?
What is the course code for 'Disruptive Technologies in Arts Enterprises'?
Who teaches the C R lecture of 'Sign and Development'?
 Which religion has the smallest numerical value mentioned in the text?
What is the location of the Office of the Dean of Students at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Materiality and Construction Systems take place?
Where was the laureate born?
What are the Master's Programs in Robotics?
What is the course title of Information Systems Consulting Project?
 What is the task of grounding as mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors listed in this text?
Who are the partners of the year-long initiative for launching CMU Portugal new ERP Signo?
What is the requirement for a student to be eligible as a teaching assistant?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Music: VAR?
 What was the hazard ratio for recurrence-free survival in patients with high-risk hepatocellular carcinoma compared to those with low-risk hepatocellular carcinoma?
 What is the main advantage that allows humans to navigate outdoor environments with ease?
What are some tips for searching this site effectively?
When and where are the courses being offered at HBH 1005 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: External Projects and Acting IV-Improv 3.0?
What are the names of the three production preparation classes that take place on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is expected of Master’s students who require longer than the standard time to complete their degree requirements?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
Who is the instructor for Scenic Design class of Macbeth's External Projects?
What is the name of the course held in room DH 2315?
What was the date of the SRS Call for Papers?
What should international students do if they want to schedule an internship outside of the summer?
 What was observed from the t-SNE plot regarding the outputs of control, straight men, gay men, and lesbian women?
 What are some early approaches used in building large-scale language models?
When will technically-savvy professionals be able to enroll in the new Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations program?
What are the days and times for Algorithms in the Real World course taught by Professor Vinayak?
Where and when does Advanced Topics in Multimodal Machine Learning take place?
What is Alexander Hauptmann's office location at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where is the Internship Practicum class held?
Where is the History of Black American Music class held?
 What do the encoder and decoder model in the text?
Who teaches the class for Lighting Production on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is the significance of page 17 in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the course name of M4 T 08:15PM - 09:30PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Ciollaro's schedule?
Can students waive the summer internship requirement?
What is the course code and instructor for Algorithm Design and Analysis offered by Anderson?
Who should students consult with if they need to take time off during university holidays for an experiment that requires continuous monitoring?
Does the institution have a protocol for childbirth/maternity accommodation?
What position does Brady Hess play?
 Where are the stories in the dataset collected from?
What is the title of the first course listed under 'Infrastructure Management'?
Where is the text set?
 What software packages were used for the statistical analyses?
Where does Steier teach 'Making Products Count: Data Science for Product Managers' class?
What is the name of the event where Women's Tennis team participated?
What are the additional learning outcomes for students electing to complete the Systems concentration?
What is the location of the event mentioned in this text?
What are the days, times, and locations of Arab Culture Through Dialogues, Film, and Literature: Minorities in the Middle East and North Africa?
 What methodology is proposed in addition to mention-linking?
Where and when are the classes held?
 What is the recommendation for the use of the dataset in real-world applications?
Why did Raj Reddy and Newell go to IBM for help with Altos?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
 What approach have previous works used to address the challenges of open-domain multilingual question-answering models?
What areas of concentration does the MIIS: Advanced Study track offer?
Who are the instructors of Practice Teaching (Elementary) and Practice Teaching (Secondary)?
How many courses are being offered in the schedule?
Who teaches Special Projects II and Digital Art Studio A (Entertainment Design Studio)?
What are the days and times when Physical Education 69004 takes place?
What are the teaching times and location for IDeATe: Introduction to 3D Animation Pipeline (60125) and who teaches it?
What is the course code for Physics First Year Seminar: VAR Black Holes?
When does this class take place in Doha, Qatar?
 What did the Frozen model demonstrate in terms of visual encoding and text-only language models?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study VAR A TBA DNM DNM?
Who are the instructors at this school, according to their names?
What are the four lecture sections for Business Computing taught by Castano Zuluaga?
 When are OpenGPTText and OpenGPTText-Final planned to be released on Kaggle?
What was unique about Mach compared to UNIX?
What is the course code for Computer Graphics?
Who are the authors of this text?
What was the final score of the Women's Tennis game against #17 Case Western Reserve?
Where can students find recreational facilities at the University Center?
 What tool is used for annotating each context span with dependency parses in the text?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
Who are the instructors for Directed Study: 2-12?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
Are pass/fail grades allowed for courses used to satisfy degree requirements?
What is Late Graduation in this context?
 What do works in the vision domain show about data filtering benefits and performance?
What is a leave of absence in the context of this text?
 What is the range of relative differences in column concentration between MERRA-2 reanalysis dust products and GRASP/Component dust retrievals over Asian dust emission resource regions?
What is the name of the third music studies studio mentioned in this text?
What is the title of lecture by Agarwal?
What are the names of Dabbish and Skirpan's courses?
 What examples are used for the FEEDBACK module in the SELF-REFINE system?
What is the location of the Elective Studio (Oboe) taught by Young?
What was the significant achievement of CMU's Eric Nyberg in 2011?
Who teaches the Lighting Production class?
Who are the performers at Knox S?
 Why is the time-synchronous variant preferred over label-synchrony in the SST model?
What are the course codes for all courses taught by Bukh, Bohman, Conley, Cummings, Fonseca, Frick, Frieze, Grossberg, Hrusa, Iyer, Kinderlehrer, and Kramkov?
 What impact does the temporal misalignment between pretraining and evaluation data have on the evaluation of models?
Who can elect benefits for their domestic partners through Carnegie Mellon's registration process?
What is the title of the seminar offered by Skirpan at SH 236 on Monday and Wednesday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM?
What is the name of the course taught by Liang?
How many concentrations can a student choose from in the MCDS program?
What is the name of the course taught by Mahler Washington at 10:00 AM on Tuesdays?
 What two tasks are primarily focused on in the ML-SUPERB benchmark?
What happens if a student fails to complete any courses at the university?
How long has CMU Portugal been active for?
What is the maximum length of time allowable for master’s degree completion and certification?
What is the name of the author listed in line 3?
Which letter represents the last name of the author Shalizi C?
What were the names of the teachers who taught Defects in Materials (Minor Option) 6.0 A MW and Transport in Materials 9.0 A T in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of all courses listed in this text that start at a time labeled as 'TBA' and end at a time labeled as 'DNM'?
What are the topics covered in Professional Issues in Biomedical Engineering?
What are the credits of Business Management(MSIN)?
How can students find more general information about research at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the university that this YouTube channel represents?
What event did they participate in on Fri, Mar/01?
What is the purpose of cross-registration program?
 What is the purpose of releasing the models Jais2 and Jais-chat3 to the public according to the text?
What are the names and locations of all the classes listed for Taylor, Kosbie at GHC?
 What is one of the major problems recognized during the AmericasNLP ST?
What are the names of the people who will be working on each day for the Stage Management section?
What is the minimum grade required for MLT students according to the Minimum Course Grade Policy?
When and where is 'Automated Science Capstone II' held?
What are the names of the courses held by Pavetti in this text?
What is the name of the university's football team as mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times of the classes offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania by Jia F?
 Why is it mentioned that previous work on energy consumption required external devices for physical measurements?
What is the 'News' section on this page?
What is the role of the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) in supporting students' career development at Carnegie Mellon University?
If I applied last year and was not admitted, can I reapply this year?
What was the date and time of the women's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and UAA Championship?
Who are the two instructors teaching the course titled 'Music: Deep-diving Artists and Genres'?
What are the resources available to assist students in understanding university policies and expectations?
What are the names of the five sections for Introduction to Engineering and Public Policy class?
Who is the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Piano AB in Foundations of Pedagogy in Music Education?
 According to the results, does SELF-REFINE consistently improve over base models?
How many sessions are there on language and cross-cultural support?
 Based on the study, how does the model ranking vary across dimensions?
What is the purpose of the English Fluency in Higher Education Act?
What are the names of the instructors for Categorical Logic and Senior Thesis 3-18?
Who teaches Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Composition UA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 According to the text, which method has proven to transfer well across modalities and tasks?
What is the course code and title of the internship offered by Ishizaki?
Who are the instructors for each of the 'Want to be a Mother' classes?
What is the name of the production that starts at 06:20PM on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday?
What is the course code for Transition Metal Chemistry?
When does Applied Smart Grid Telecoms class take place in Kigali, Rwanda?
 How are the proposed methods compared against in the text?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
 Why did leveraging smaller vocabularies and forcing every passage to be expanded with a large number of artificial terms likely introduce noise in the passage representations?
 Why does FLARE show a larger improvement on ASQA-hint compared to ASQA?
What is the significance of the date mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Critical Studies: Social History of Animation?
 How does the FNN-LM differ from classical N-gram LMs in terms of performance?
Which regions are discussed in this text?
 How is bias in language model outputs quantitatively measured in the text?
 What is highlighted as valuable in the text regarding multimodal context?
Who teaches Categorical Logic 12.0 A TR?
 What is the ratio denoted by η in the text?
Who is teaching the Automated Lighting Rig Engineering class?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for the courses offered at 11:00 AM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
What is Ralf's position in the department?
What can you learn at the Carnegie Mellon CIE?
What resource does CMU provide for students who need help with completing Form I-9?
What does the class called 'Directing A' focus on?
Where was the UAA Championships held?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in PTC 5208 on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
 What is one of the exciting directions for future research mentioned in the text?
 What is the difference between the highest and lowest values recorded for Austronesian languages?
What services does Parking and Transportation provide for CMU students, faculty, and community?
What is the course code for Nation, Culture, and Society in South Asian Cinema?
What year does the text mention?
 What are the limitations of the data and metrics discussed in the text?
Do doctoral students receive vouchers and participate in the voucher process?
What are the course codes for 'Research Training: Modern Languages', 'Eastern Europe: Society and Culture', and 'Arab Culture Through Dialogues, Film, and Literature' respectively?
What are the names of the courses offered by Production Prep for Grown Ups in the evening?
What is B*?
Where is LTI located?
What are some of the academic programs offered by Language Technologies Institute at CMU?
What is the time and location of Ben-Michael F's Monday, Wednesday, and Friday courses?
What are the days/times for Stone's class?
Is the 'TOEFL ITP Plus for China' test acceptable for English proficiency evaluation at MCDS?
 What improvement was seen when using In-Domain TTS Data in the ASR model?
What are the names of all instructors teaching on Wednesday at CMR F305?
What is the URL for the main page of the Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs website?
What is the course code of Entrepreneurship Project A?
 How is the exploration-exploitation dilemma tackled in the algorithm HILL?
What are the names of the two instructors who teach 'Erdmann, Kaynar MWF 10:00 AM to 10:50 AM' and 'Acar, Sleator A T', respectively?
Where and when does Fischhoff's Tech Start-up: Market Discovery take place?
What happens when students fail to meet these standards?
Who teaches Vector Calculus for Computer Scientists in Lecture 1 of MWF 09:00AM - 09:50AM?
 How many attention heads are there in the transformer encoder?
What are the dates and times of the two listed rehearsal periods for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2)?
In which class is the instructor for N?
How many credits does each course have?
What is the name of the course taught by Chandler in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can a student change their advisor in the program?
Where is Iyengar's Film Acquisition course located?
 What is the purpose of the Python tool provided for stdio interaction in Pentathlon?
 According to the text, what can be done to increase model capacity without affecting latency?
Where is the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual) located for Cello GA and Cello GB?
Are there any instructors with unknown names for the independent study courses?
How many weeks of vacation are allowed during a typical winter break at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the duration of the Doctoral course in Information Sciences and Technology?
 What is the purpose of evaluating the strict accuracy of cross-encoders?
What is the course code of the course taught by Professor Gomez?
Where is the Office located?
When and where is the course 'Innovation Mindset in Practice' taking place?
Who is the instructor of Undergraduate Research (Biological Sciences 03445)?
 What are some of the challenging issues that need to be addressed in creating MT systems for indigenous languages?
Where did Nolan Casey attend high school before Packer Collegiate School?
What is the name of the degree mentioned in this text that has a 21901 component?
 What was the main finding of the study regarding empathy towards stories retrieved by different models?
 What findings underscore the need for future research mentioned in the text?
 What can lead to suboptimal behaviors in planning within outdoor environments?
What is the website address of The Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation?
Who are the contacts for specific colleges at The HUB?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about designing for study abroad?
What are the course credits and title of Career & Professional Development for Engineering Masters Students?
 How does Unlimiformer perform in BookSum compared to base models like BARTbase and PRIMERA?
When did the Human-Computer Interaction Institute form?
What is the status of the match between ITA Regionals and the Tartan Men's Tennis team on September 29, 2023?
 How do MERRA-2 reanalysis dust products compare to GRASP/Component dust retrievals over the Asian dust emission resource regions?
What website provides information about shuttle and escort services for CMU students, faculty, and community?
What is the course title and instructor for Applied Microeconomics Seminar?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
Which university is hosting the UAA Championship for men's tennis?
Who teaches Elective Studio (Trombone) and what instrument do they specialize in?
 How can we describe AI assistants like Jais, Bard, or ChatGPT?
 What does the extreme case where the VC dimension is 0 imply?
What is the name of the course being taught at 10:00 AM on Wednesday?
What is the location of the lecture according to the text?
How many hours per week does M.S. Research 9-48 require?
What is a Duolingo score equivalent to a TOEFL iBT score?
Who can students contact if they need more information about parking at CMU?
 What practical descending tendency is highlighted regarding BC emission trends in eastern China?
 What did the variations in κorg during the observation periods of the study correlate well with?
 What values are provided in the text for performance indicators such as Pico+, IRNet, DALI, and Ours?
What is the page number of this text?
What is the location of GHC CLSTR at what time?
 What does lexicographic sorting in social choice literature involve?
What should students do if they have any questions or issues related to Student Information Online (SIO)?
What is Yiming Yang's job title?
How can students obtain a copy of the annual campus security and fire safety report?
What is the name of the university where Professor Yiming Yang was inducted into SIGIR Academy?
What is the location of these courses?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What is ORIC's role in assisting researchers?
Who are the instructors for the Software Management Independent Study course with codes 3, 6, 12, and 24?
What is unique about chess compared to more abstract problems according to Schaeffer?
What are the additional resources available to graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does Band and Choral Arranging meet in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the productions that start at 11:00AM and end at 03:00PM?
When is the Graduate Topics in Research class held?
When does Quantitative Cell and Molecular Biology Laboratory take place?
What are some of the procedures used to review possible violations of standards at CMU?
 How does the adaptive ratio scheme decide the ratio according to the model performance?
 What was the purpose of the development data provided to participants?
What does RSS stand for in relation to this text?
What is the course code and title of Murshid's other class?
 What factors contribute to the presence of mineral dust particles over the Mediterranean Basin?
When does Rissinger's class take place?
When does the 'Production Management C' course take place?
What school did Nikita Jadhav attend before joining Carnegie Mellon University?
How many courses are taught by Bates and what are their titles?
What are the standard degree requirements and certification for PhD Degree Attainment?
What are the names of the instructors for Scenic Design E?
What kind of storage and computation do the LTI’s computer cluster provide for Ph.D. students?
Who are the stage managers for 'A Little Night Music'?
 What method is used to improve the state-of-the-art in AAI according to the research?
 What is the significance of InPars-Light in the field of neural ranking models?
 What method did Solaiman et al. use to achieve state-of-the-art performance in detecting text generated by GPT-2?
 What is the focus of the evaluation mentioned in the text?
What are pass/fail grades mentioned in section 5.1.3?
What is the course code for Introduction to Translation?
What is the email address of Patrick Kimball, who is an assistant coach at Andrew University?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Material Histories 9.0 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What kind of materials does the library license or purchase for its users?
 What percentage of responses came from Europe (EU) and the Middle East (ME)?
What is the course name and instructor for Service Operations Management?
 Where do they collect their Arabic training data from?
What is the significance of SIO in managing student's financial aid status?
 How does DPHuBERT differ from pure distillation methods?
What is the purpose of this page according to the text?
What are the days and times when course 11634 is offered?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Mondays and Wednesdays from 12:00 PM to 1:50 PM in SH 238?
 How does the stress intensity factor change with an increase in the initial crack propagation angle?
What happens to a degree when it has been falsified?
Who teaches the course 57621 Independent Study in Eurhythmics?
What is the course code for Grad Diction: Italian?
What are the days and times when the 'Production Prep: Penelope: Lighting Production' class will be held?
According to CMU policy, how long should transcripts be recorded on a student's record?
What are the timings for Exploring Modern Mathematics course?
When did the Tartans place second at the Mid-Atlantic Regional?
What was the name of the department where CMU's Computer Science Department moved after the merger in 1967?
What is Scotty's full name?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
 What is provided in the ASQA-hint setting to guide LMs?
Who is the instructor of Ph.D. Readings and Research course (HBH 1007) offered on Tuesday and Thursday from 10:00 AM to 11:20 AM?
What are the days and times when Production Prep: Love and Money: Media Design L class is held?
What are the names of the production preparation classes for both productions?
How can students receive accommodations for their disabilities?
When did Carnegie Mellon's official Scottish terrier mascot debut?
When and where does Management Consulting take place?
When is Ozel's Introduction to CAD and CAE Tools class held?
What document summarizes MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 12:00 PM to 1:50 PM in SH 236?
Who convinced Berliner to continue his education and how did they do it?
What are the class times and locations for Volleyball A4's Racquetball course?
When and where is Fabricating Customization: Prototype 9.0 held?
Under which section does Parking and Transportation fall under in this text?
When and where does Ales teach Finance I?
What is the purpose of workshops at this center?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study in Conducting?
Who teaches Modern Regression?
What is the course code and its respective instructor for Innovation & Entrepreneurship?
What is the course code and instructor for Independent Study in Marketing offered at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the email address for Ilyas Bankolehameed?
What is the course code of 'Undergraduate Seminar II: Safety and Environmental Issues for Chemists'?
Who were the instructors for the Major Studio (Piano) course?
 How are the story pairs for empathic similarity annotation created?
How does Ebeling describe the challenges of AI research?
What are the expectations for students supported by research projects during winter and summer breaks?
From which organization did $1.8 million come from for the department's budget?
What is Health Behavior Informatics according to the text?
What are the names of the instructors who teach Collaborative Piano I, II, III, IV, and V courses?
What are the days and times when Dance I classes are held?
How long can a student study at MIIS?
How many students are listed in the table for Major Studio (Voice)?
Is the GRE at Home Test accepted?
When and where is Intelligent Transportation Systems being offered?
When and where does Gender, Politics and Policies in the US and Across the World take place?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study and Special Topics: Statistical Machine Learning?
 How does discrete diffusion compare to continuous diffusion models when there are more than 5 diffusion steps?
 What is the key factor that solar PV power yield depends on?
 What were the three different resolutions of the HuBERT models that were analyzed?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
 What are some of the metrics used to evaluate the quality of the learned language speakers in the study?
 What are some examples of what the content could be referring to?
What is the course name for the class offered on Tuesday at 2:00 PM in PCA 209?
Where is the location of Naval ROTC and Veteran Affairs Offices?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Clarinet) and Elective Studio (Bassoon)?
What happens if a student fails to meet all the specified conditions in an N-1 letter?
Who are the instructors for Statistical Models of the Brain and Independent Study courses in the second half of the schedule?
What kind of information can I find on the Office of Housing and Dining Services' website for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course title of the lecture that starts at 12:30 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room PH A18A?
How many times does Office of Research Integrity & Compliance appear in the given text?
 What mechanism is employed to reduce encoding computational complexity in TASTE?
What are the names of all classes taught by Anderson?
What is the title of Zaffora Blando's Categorical Logic course?
 How many risk areas are identified during instruction-tuning to ensure the content generated by Jais-chat is safe?
What is the purpose of appealing a grade?
What is the deferral policy at MIIS?
What time does the class start for Production Prep: John Proctor: Stage Management?
When is 'Harmony I' course held and who teaches it?
What are the names of the courses offered on Saturday from 5:46 AM to 2:46 PM?
What is the role of part of the band during basketball games?
What is the name of the building where Yoon D2 class is held?
What is the name of the fifth course mentioned in the text?
What is the course code and title of the Senior Capstone II course?
Where is the information about Language and Cross-Cultural Support located in the MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
Who are the authors mentioned in this text?
What is the course name of B3 TR 04:00PM - 05:45PM in TEP 2119, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Goyette's schedule?
What is the role of the Program Director in deciding whether a student can transfer into the MIIS program?
In which section can you find information about computing services provided by the university?
What is the course code for the lecture taught by Lee A T in DH 1212, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of writing an employer's name and address on the bill for students with an employer reimbursement plan?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two courses that start at 6:50 PM?
What is the course code for Elementary French II?
What are the course codes for Special Topics: Statistical Machine Learning and Independent Study?
 What is the main dataset used for hyperparameter tuning?
What is the location of each course?
 Why was the degradation less severe for the MVDR beamforming compared to TF-GridNet-based complex spectral mapping?
What is the course code for Senior Thesis VAR A?
 Who is invited to participate in the challenge mentioned in the text?
Who teaches the Production Preparation Show Network Integrator course?
 What is the downstream model design based on in ML-SUPERB?
What is the course name for class TEP 2119 in this schedule?
What is the expected behavior of departments and colleges regarding academic requirements?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 12:30PM for Laird?
 How are the datasets augmented in this work?
What are some programs and services offered by the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence?
 What is the main focus of the work by Florian Böhm and colleagues?
How many people are listed in this text?
 How is the CTC posterior distribution of the entire encoder network conditioned on the intermediate predictions?
How tall is William Rabon?
What is the name of the player who plays as a forward and has the number 5 on her jersey?
Where did The Visit Florence Intercollegiate take place?
Why was there competition to host the Software Engineering Institute?
What is the name of the YouTube channel that contains this video?
Who is teaching the Intro to Mammalian Physiology class?
What is the email address of Kemal Oflazer?
Who is the academic advisor for Harshith Arun Kumar?
Which swimmers are mentioned in this text as competing in the Breaststroke event?
How many practice units are required to attain both MIIS-16 and MIIS-21 degrees?
Where were the matches in April?
What is the Institution Code for submitting TOEFL scores to SCS Doctoral Admissions page?
When and where does Professor Costanzo's class meet?
What are the course codes and titles of Peteanu's classes?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
When does Pedercini's 'Advanced SIS: Open Sculpture' class take place?
 What is highlighted by the blue dashed boxes in Figure 5?
Name one key office for health, wellness, and safety according to A.3.
What is the format of a student's five-year schedule in Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What is the contact information of the ROTC and Veteran Affairs Coordinator at CMU?
When did the Carnegie Mellon Invitational for Track and Field start?
What are the names of the courses taught by Shen on Friday?
What is the location of Lisbon, Portugal?
 What is recommended when batch sizes are small to reduce framework overhead?
What are the course codes for Turetsky's classes that start after 10 AM?
 What happens after submitting the application for an Emirates ID?
What is the name of the course taught by Zhang E in room MM 103?
Who is the instructor for Naval Laboratory (3.0 A W 01:00PM 01:50PM MI AUD)?
What services does Computing Services provide for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members and staff members?
What resources are available for students who have been victims of sexual harassment or assault?
What does RSS stand for in relation to this text?
What is the time and location of Special Topics in HCI: Data Science for Product Managers B4?
 What is the median time taken by MO-GI across the benchmarks?
Where is Pino's Experimental Writing class held?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Sztutman in room 2610 on Monday and Wednesday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
Who are the speakers for the event starting at 03:30PM on Monday and Wednesday?
What is the process for applying to a PhD program in SCS?
In which room is Rhetoric & the Construction of Race: Rhetoric, Race, & Ethnicity being held?
Which instrument did Pukinskis play in Major Studio?
What is the purpose of Zoom synchronous meeting in one-on-one communication tutoring?
What are the three classes being offered in this schedule?
What is the name of the course that starts at 02:00 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course name and location for the course offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 03:30 PM?
What is the time and location of the Finance course?
What are the minimum grade requirements that students must satisfy to meet their degree requirements?
What advice did Mauldin give future entrepreneurs?
What is the name of the course offered in Critical Studies: Science Fiction Film?
Where can you find more information about faculty at Language Technologies Institute?
When is 'Instrumental Ensemble' held?
What is the location of GHC 5404 in relation to other buildings at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: External Projects Media & Lighting's schedule?
 What is the main difference between retrieval-augmented LMs and standard neural LMs?
What are the policies and expectations that govern the administration of the LTI PhD program?
Who is the instructor for Lighting Production J on Wednesday?
What is the name of the course that starts at 03:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
In which room and at what time does Fluid Mechanics Lab take place?
What is the course title for Crittenden's class on psychology of prejudice?
What are the course codes for Intermediate Real Analysis I and Computational Introduction to Partial Differential Equations, and who teaches them?
How many lanes does the pool in the University Center have?
What is the course code of the Practicum in Biomedical Engineering?
What is the role of an advisor in a student's academic journey?
 How does CodeBERTScore perform compared to chrF and ROUGE-L in evaluating code generation models?
What is the purpose of this text according to its title?
On which day did the Western PA Invitational take place?
 When were the conversations for TBD-Q1-2023 collected?
Who should students contact if they have inquiries about the application of and compliance with Carnegie Mellon University's Statement of Assurance?
 What is Entity Linking and how is it used in the context of corpora and queries?
What is the URL of the resource page maintained by the Graduate Student Assembly website for spouses, domestic partners, and families of graduate students?
What is the purpose of Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI) at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What does MRR stand for and how is it calculated?
What is the name of the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) that offers Music Entrepreneurship course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is z in the context of the time reversal technique?
What is the name of the person mentioned in this text?
What are the days and times of the course that starts at 6:30 PM on Monday and ends at 9:20 PM in room HBH 1004?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for classes R 03:30PM, HBH 1202, and Goranson B2?
What are the course codes for the two Evidence-Based Education Design courses?
Who is Weild and what time does he have a class?
What is the purpose of the Veterans and Military Community website at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's mission statement?
What can you do on the 'Contact Us' page of the Language Technologies Institute?
Which courses are part of the Internships category?
What are the time and location of Theory and Design of Writing Instruction class?
What is the name of the course taught by Hsieh?
What are some examples of how technology has benefited society?
What are the topics covered in the Prototyping Lab II course?
Where does the 'Independent Study for Entertainment Technology Center' take place, and who is the instructor?
What are the days and times for Topics in the History of the African Diaspora?
What is the name of the course that starts at 9:00 AM on Tuesdays in room MM 215?
What is the name of the course that starts at 10:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in CUC POOL?
 What is the focus of AV-SUPERB?
What are the sections covered in chapter 6 of this text?
 What sampling method was used during inference for the open-ended generation task?
When does Anti-Racist & Equitable Practices in Theater take place?
What are the course codes and titles offered in the Water Resource Systems Engineering class?
How can you ensure that all schedule data fits on a printed page?
What is required for submitting a Statement of Purpose in the application process?
 What is the main process of typical diffusion models in the continuous domain?
What are the course names, instructors, and time slots for the courses offered at 03:30 PM on Tuesday?
Who are the authors of the Ph.D. dissertation defense mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course taught by Hauptmann?
How is the Graduate Student Assembly funded?
Which department in Student Affairs handles student's behavior and conduct issues?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
When and where does Independent Study with Instructor TBA take place?
 What were the exclusion criteria for patients in this study?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Sound Recording Production VAR A and Independent Study in Special Music Project 3-9 A?
What is the significance of Nico Habermann being unhappy about budgeting?
What is the course code for Schlossman's Independent Study?
In which city does Bain offer Practicum in Electrical and Computer Engineering for 0-36 A?
 What type of SSL representations are ablated in Table 8?
What is the course code for Research and Innovation in Computer Science?
What are the class times and instructors for Carnegie Scenic F?
What happens if all supporting documents do not arrive by the deadline?
 What is the main contribution of the evaluation suite for phonetic word embeddings according to the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Doha?
What is the location of the Dramaturgy internship?
What is the course code for 'Chemical Engineering 06405 Independent Study'?
When and where are Practicum in Biomedical Engineering held?
What are two options available for students whose anticipated delivery date is during the course of the semester?
 What does CSurF perform over the entire query or document sequence to select sequence importance weight for a surface form t?
Who teaches the Data Science and Big Data course?
What are the names of the two classes that start at 2:30 PM on Monday?
 What is the role of the trained MT model in speech translation data?
Who are the instructors for Tepper College Honors Thesis II and Electrical & Computer Engineering 18021 Introduction to Printed Circuit Boards Fabrication?
What is the name of the student who will be presenting his/her thesis research and writing in the field of Millinery I?
What is the name of Thomas and Patel's class?
What should students do if they have questions about the program of study?
What are the names of Ames's courses offered at different times and days?
 What do the experimental results in Table 3 compare?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Bassoon)?
What are the course codes for Computer Game Programming, Special Topics: Visual Computing Systems, and Independent Study in the Computer Sciences?
What is the title of Brockmann's course?
How long is an Affiliate ID Card valid?
When is the final deadline for applying to the MCDS program?
 How many languages are included in the FLEURS dataset?
What happens if I am in immediate danger?
Who teaches Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Trombone QA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does section 6.2.3 discuss?
In which sport did Carnegie Mellon compete against Stevens on March 1st?
How can a student change advisors if needed?
Does the length of a master's program vary for part-time students?
 What is Multi Query Attention (MQA), and in which models is it implemented?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
Which option is a traditional way of sharing content?
What is the name of the course that starts at 8:00 AM on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday?
What is the name of the institution where Chiu teaches?
What is the URL for University Police?
 What role do Language Models (LMs) play in providing a prior probability distribution?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Monday from 4:00 PM to 5:20 PM?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What is Hitech?
What kind of workshops does the library offer?
 What does the regularization term promoting equipartitioning take as input?
What are some recent actions taken by GSA?
How can students in F-1 and J-1 nonimmigrant status anticipate longer-than standard completion?
What are the locations of WEH buildings in the text?
What are the days and times of the week when Web Application Development is offered?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the location of the event in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who wrote a white paper proposing the creation of 'a School of Computer Science'?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Luokkala and Singh?
Where is Zetlin-Jones Lec 1 held?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes that start between 4 PM to 6:30 PM?
Where are the classes taught by Richards located?
 Why are some languages considered under-served by composite multilingual benchmarks?
What is the course title of the class taught by Khokher in room TEP 2701 at the University of Pittsburgh?
When was the 25th anniversary celebration of Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times for each course?
What were some systems developed by CMU during that time?
 What is the objective of using the CTC loss of intermediate layers in deep encoder networks?
What services does the library offer for locating and obtaining specific resources?
What is the course code for Linear Systems?
What are the benefits of completing an undergraduate minor in Language Technologies?
Who are the faculty members mentioned in this text?
What is the name of the passage for the Stage Management D course?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Lifeguard Training D1 TR 02:00PM 03:20PM and Lifeguard Training D2 TR 02:00PM 03:20PM?
Who is the instructor for 'Production Preparation: Show Network Integrator'?
Where can graduate students find information about parking and transportation at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is the instructor for Organizational Behavior class?
Where is Health Psych held?
When and where does Introduction to Music Technology class take place?
 How were the experimental environments configured in the text?
What are the course names for each day/time mentioned in the text?
What are the days, times, and location of Service Design class?
Where is The HUB Student Services Center located?
What is the topic discussed in section 9.16 of this text?
 How does the algorithm in the text compute valid regions and region labels?
What is Title IX and how does it apply to admission decisions at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the titles of the two courses taught by Vasilescu?
What are the course codes and titles for the classes that start at 02:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
When and where does Geometry-based Methods in Vision start?
What happens if a student wants to leave the Ph.D program in LTI?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
When was the Women's Tennis match held on Tue, Mar/07?
 Why are nouns added as patients in the intransitive form required to not be entities that cause the event described by the verb?
What is the maximum age for GRE test results?
Who is the instructor of Privacy and Security Capstone at Doha, Qatar?
What is the time and duration of the class for Special Topics in Music: VAR?
What is the course code for Intermediate Rapid Prototyping?
What is the name of the award given to recognize research excellence at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
How many pages are there in total for the document?
Who will be receiving CMU's Outstanding Recent Alumni Award?
Where did the Carnegie Mellon vs Rochester match take place on October 18?
What is the course title of Habib's class?
What does the text say about a letter that is given to students who are not making satisfactory progress?
What is the name of the course offered by Cantlon that involves animal minds?
What are the course codes for Acting III and VMD Systems Studio?
 Why is using a small 10-minute/1-hour training set important in the ML-SUPERB benchmark?
What is the course code of Environmental Engineering Lab?
Who are the instructors teaching the class titled 'Software Engineering Independent Study: Software Engineering Independent Study'?
What is the course code for Bug Catching: Automated Program Verification?
What is the location and time of Joe-Wong's lecture for Principles and Engineering Applications of AI?
What is the policy regarding external employment or consulting for students according to this text?
What is the title of the research on second language acquisition?
What are the class timings for Class 1.0 A M and Class 1.0 A T?
Where does the 'Elective Studio (Viola)' take place?
What are the days and times of the Programming and Data Analysis for Social Scientists course taught by Patterson?
What are the class names and their respective locations for the given time slots?
What are students required to do if they want to plead their case for admission to a course?
 How is the difference between translate-test and zero-shot performance explained?
Who are the instructors of Movement I and Dramaturg classes?
 What is the purpose of the eight newly developed PRO domains as described in the text?
 Why are results for Yoruba not reported for XLM-R in the text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Shen on Tuesday?
 Why is it intractable to solve the objective using gradient descent in Eq. (2)?
What is the responsibility of Student Health Services regarding student health insurance?
What does ACM (Association for Computing Machinery) do?
What are the class names and their respective time slots for Pennsylvania Mackey E?
What are the class times for Sound?
How is the final grade calculated for each assessment item in this program?
Who are the head coaches of Women's Tennis?
Who are the teachers for Major Vocal Performance Ensemble?
What are the names of the courses offered in the Advanced Entertainment Lighting Programming Lab?
 What key challenge is addressed by the authors in combining partial annotation with self-training to reduce annotation cost?
What are the days and times of Product Design class?
What is the purpose of providing accommodations for gestational parents in educational institutions like Carnegie Mellon?
What is the origin of the :-) or : ) convention according to some people?
 Who are the authors of the second paper?
What are the names of the courses offered by Crowley at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the magazine that published this article?
What are the time slots for Raponi's course 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Voice AD'?
What is the title of Agarwal's lecture?
How do students find a faculty member willing to be their independent study supervisor?
What are some typical choices for electives that SCS students might take outside of their program?
When does this class take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Are students with Stafford Loan required to maintain full-time status at MCDS?
 What was the maximum difference in fatigue life observed when passing through the corrosion pit?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Wiener and Van Compernolle in the Topics in Second Language Acquisition category?
Where can you find up-to-date shuttle and escort schedules, pick-up/drop-off locations, routes and usage policies?
On which date did the Tartans compete in a meet hosted by Kenyon College?
 What is the framework introduced in the paper for the unification of learning with various imprecise label configurations?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Physics for Future Presidents'?
Who is the teacher teaching Business Leadership Endeavor II at TEP 2611 on Friday?
What are the days and times of the 'Intermediate Game Studio: Interactivity' course?
What are the time slots for Garrod and Blelloch's classes at PH A22?
Where does the author suggest students should find more information about these standards?
What are the different time slots offered for Introduction to Coldworking?
 What is simulated in the text to emulate disparate user experiences on each platform?
What is expected from students attending the LTI lectures and talks?
Which team won the UAA Indoor Championships?
What are the locations of Taylor Kosbie's classes?
 What does the paper propose to facilitate zero-shot multilingual TTS?
What is the name of the course in Costume Design G?
What are the class times and locations for Molecular Biology and Topics in Research 1-2?
Where can students get more information about the Emergency Student Loan?
 What is the estimated cost in USD to translate the FLORES-200 devtest set ENG→X for each target language and MT system?
When is the class offered on Wednesday at 8:15 PM - 9:30 PM (TEP 2112)?
What does Scotty often say in times of trouble?
What are the days and times for Special Topics: Statistical Machine Learning class taught by Lei?
 What is the main benefit of using CLIP in the proposed approach for contrastive captioning?
What is the name of the piece composed by Wu N?
 What is the problem formulation in Appendix D of the text regarding the combined vocal folds-tract model?
 How does the robot navigate between waypoints?
 What is LM shallow fusion?
According to section 1.6, what principle should students follow when making decisions?
What are the names and locations of all classes listed in the text?
 What is the role of parameter K in hybrid architectures according to CUTTLEFISH?
What is the course code for Sophomore BME Research Project?
What is included in the common MCDS core?
What is the name of the production preparation course that starts at 8 PM?
Who can you contact if you have been impacted by domestic violence, stalking or retaliation?
 What improvement did the larger parameter size of w2v-bert allow in language representations?
What are the names of the teachers who will be teaching Literature and Repertoire for Brass?
 How is the output distribution in AED models conditioned in relation to the decoder state and the context vector?
 How many numbers are less than or equal to 50?
 How do FEDEPTH and m-FEDEPTH compare in terms of prediction accuracy for CIFAR-100?
What is tied to making normal progress toward completing degree requirements for international students?
In which section can students find information about transcripts?
 What does the ion migration spectra analysis of dried fruits show in Figure 2?
Where can faculty, staff, and Ph.D. students find office locations?
What is the name of the course taught by Awodey K in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the professors teaching Tepper PhD: 1-36 TBA, Tepper PhD: TBA B TBA DNM DNM, Tepper PhD: TBA C TBA DNM DNM, and Tepper PhD: TBA E TBA DNM DNM?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Special Topics: Music Theater History and Repertoire in Room 313 on Tuesday, Thursday?
How does the process work when a student wants to switch advisors?
How can prospective students apply to LTI Graduate School?
 What is the focus of the text?
Where can students get more information about the process?
What is the purpose of Computing Services at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of the city where the Advanced Music Studies Studios are located?
What was the dream of early researchers in system verification?
What do the advisers from each institution help with during the student's progress?
What does Satisfactory Progress mean in this context?
Who are the instructors for Machine Learning 10315 Introduction to Machine Learning (SCS Majors)?
Why is the 2023-24 Tartan Men's Golf schedule important?
 What cultural changes were brought about by the shift from symbolic to statistical methods in NLP?
When do students graduate from MCDS program in the standard timing option?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Engineering Optimization and A/B Testing, Design, and Analysis?
What are the days and times of the classes for Production Prep: Lorca Scenic Design E?
What are the names of Handron's classes?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
What is the name of the high school that Anika Joshi attended?
How can students make appointments at UHS?
What is the name of the event that athlete #7 excels at?
 What sampling technique is used for inference?
How many authors are listed in the text?
 What kind of behavior do Transformer-based speech models exhibit, according to the text?
Who are the instructors listed in this text?
Who was the only person publishing about chess in high-quality scientific venues during Schaeffer's studies?
What is Nolan Casey's hometown?
How much did Computer Science Department's budget increase between 1982 and 1985?
What was the reason for Dana Scott moving from Oxford to CMU?
What happens if a student cannot find a specific advisor?
What is the application deadline for programs in the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the purpose of the 'Conference' event listed?
What is the name of the conference mentioned in the text?
What is LTI Orientation or The Immigration Course?
When was Aldrich named USA Track and Field Throws Coach for 2024 Paris Olympics?
Is Alexander Hauptmann a professor at Carnegie Mellon University?
What position does Alexander Nelson play?
What is the date of the softball game between Brandeis and Carnegie Mellon?
What are the course codes for Interaction Design Fundamentals, Advanced Interaction Design and Digital Service Innovation?
Where is the 'Energy Policy and Economics' course held?
What are the class timings for Introduction to Hot Glass I: TBA F?
 How do TDT models with different configurations utilize durations during inference?
What are the five key offices mentioned in A.4 Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety?
What is the name of the course taught by Mr. Hollifield on Wednesday at 2:30 PM in Doha, Qatar?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Who are the people attending the fourth event?
What are the class times for Production Management?
Which course would satisfy a student's interest in text mining, text analytics, and question-answering systems?
 What is the meaning of the number 0.608 in the text?
Who were the instructors for the Summer Directed Study 3-12 course?
What is the title of the course?
What is mentioned about the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook in this text?
What happens if MCDS students do not notify their school about any change in their address in a timely manner?
What were some advantages of Mach compared to UNIX?
What are the names of the courses taught by Islam in this schedule?
 What is one advantage of using GLoRA in real-world scenarios?
When does the class 'Business Language Analytics' start and end?
Who is responsible for directing SOM 2?
Where was the Battle for the Obelisk held?
What is the topic of Organizational Behavior?
Where and when does 'Introduction to Writing Fiction' take place?
Who is the instructor for the Costume Production course?
Where is the location of the University Police Department?
What is the course code for Search Engines?
 What is one aspect of the translations provided in Table 2 that does not convey the resultative meaning component?
What are the terms for repayment of an Emergency Student Loan?
Who is the instructor for Concerto: Virtuosity and Contrast 9.0?
 What is the main focus of the paper?
What are the names of the courses offered by the instructors in Classical Physics?
 What is the percentage loss ratio of effective prestress in S3 after the corrosion end?
 Why does the translation quality improve as the chunk size increases?
 How many grape varieties were studied in the research mentioned?
 What architecture and training configurations are used for MixIT in the given text?
 What was the aim of the EQA study discussed in the text?
Who teaches 'Internship' class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the learning outcomes of MCDS Program?
What are the days and times of Molecular Simulation of Materials class?
What is the location of Freeman G's class?
What is the overall goal of Graham Neubig's research according to his personal website?
What is the name of the course that starts at 08:00AM and is taught by Pal-Agrawal?
When and where does Applied Econometrics for DAS take place?
What are the permit rates for parking areas on campus?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Major Studio (Cello)?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's policy regarding discrimination based on veteran status?
Will I be considered for financial support if I am admitted?
What event did Matt Beuermann win in the PAC Men's Indoor Track and Field championship according to The Herald article?
What is the name of the course taught by Thompson B and Thompson C at CMR F205 in Kigali, Rwanda?
Where can I find more information about FedEx, copy centers, printing and mailing services at Carnegie Mellon University?
 Who funded the study mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for Vector Analysis?
What is the location of the first class listed in the schedule?
What are the dates and times of Special Topics in Integrated Systems Technology class?
What are the names of the courses taught by Steier and Apple?
How long was Berliner the top-ranked U.S. correspondence chess player?
Where is the location of the event?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Independent Study in Rhetoric?
What is the name of the internship program mentioned in the text?
In which room does B23 212 take place?
 What model is used for the multilingual k-means extraction in the text?
 Why are total FLOPs considered not predictive of real-world efficiency?
What is the purpose of the appeal process according to the text?
 What does the rejection criteria in Figure 11 show?
What is the course code for the Independent Study in Language and Culture-Advanced Level 3-12?
What is Appendix A in the handbook used for?
Who is the second author mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the instructor for Practical Internship for Senior Chemical Engineering course?
What was the result of the Tartan Men's Tennis team's match against Oberlin?
What resources are available for new mothers on campus and in the Pittsburgh area according to the resource page maintained by the Graduate Student Assembly?
What is the course code for Spatial Data Science with ArcGIS Pro?
What are the names of the instructors listed in this text who teach courses starting with 'Internship'?
 What is the primary function of CD8+TILs in tumors?
What services does Language Support provide for teaching assistants who are non-native English speakers at Carnegie Mellon?
Where does the Squash class take place?
 How long did the all-domain pretraining of the DeBERTA-v3-435M model mentioned in the text take?
What are the course codes and titles of the two courses offered by Cai in HH B131 at 11:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday?
When did SCS make its formal debut?
What financial issues does this section cover?
Which department provides health services to students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the output of level combination mentioned in the third paper used for?
When and where are Financial and Managerial Accounting II: Financial and Managerial Accounting II offered by Sudbury in Business Administration 45701?
What is the purpose of visiting the website mentioned at the end?
What kind of services does the Office of Housing and Dining Services provide to students?
When is the 'Business of Music' class held?
What are the days of the week and times for class HBH 1208 listed in the schedule?
What are the time slots of the Lighting Design class?
 How do non-uniform tokenization rates affect LM API cost disparity for speakers of different languages?
 What is one of the critical parameters in studying the indirect radiation effects and environmental impacts of aerosols?
Where can students find contact information related to MCDS at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the class names and their respective days for the classes that meet at DH 1209 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How many blocks does the conformer architecture consist of for the ENCst encoder?
 How can λ and ν be obtained for a set of integers in the CMP distribution?
What is the purpose of the Office of Disability Resources?
Who is the instructor for Violin ED at the studio?
What are the names of the courses taught by Chouldechova A2 and Chouldechova StuCo?
 What is the number of features for each treatment sample in the GDSC dataset?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
 How many tokens of text does Pajama22 have?
What is the course name for Resilient & Sustainable Communities?
How does Employment Eligibility Verification work according to the handbook?
Who should students contact for tuition problems?
What are the names of the people listed after 'Zhang' and their respective titles or positions?
What are some programs and services offered by the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence?
What are the days and times for Zimmerman and Yildirim's Design of Artificial Intelligence Products A class?
 Why is entity recognition accuracy significant in the context of relation classification?
When does Professor Kar's 'Linear Systems 12.0' class take place?
What are the names of Budnik's classes in HH 1107?
What program are Venny Ayudiani and Priya Bagaria enrolled in?
What is the name of the course that starts at 1:50 PM in PCA 103?
 How is the latency calculated in the text?
 How many subreddits were manually selected for northeast US cities and machine learning/deep learning topics?
When are the classes held on Wednesdays and Saturdays?
 What is the scoring system named that builds on the entity centrality methods and calculates the passage score as the linear interpolation between the BERT query-passage score and centrality score?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
In what room is Introduction to Sound Design for Theatre held?
What is the significance of 'Login' and 'Logout' on this website?
What are the different types of Ph.D programs offered by this institution?
What is the location of Cervesato's first class?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Basic Experimental Physics A and Basic Experimental Physics B?
Where can graduate students find information about dining services and operations at CMU?
What are the names of the courses being taught on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
 What is the title of the text?
What are the days and times when the course 'Production Prep: TBA 1: VAR Directing A' is held?
 What advantages does RRT provide in decision-making over MCTS?
What are the days, times, and location for the Software Architectures lecture?
 According to the text, what is an important guiding principle of ASR research and development?
Where does Ragona teach Large Format Photography?
What is the name of the course that teaches Musical Theatre on Stage and Screen?
How many Capstone courses do all MCDS students complete?
What are the names of the courses listed in the schedule?
Where can you find more information about fee waivers in the School of Computer Science?
 How does the density ratio method contribute to the training process?
 How many times was GIDroid run for each version of the improved code?
What are the names of the people listed under each letter for both parts of the text?
In which room does Peng teach Competition Programming I (5.0) on Mondays from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
How many years does it take for a student to complete their MLT program?
What is the name of the university where these athletes compete?
What is the purpose of the Office of the Dean of Students according to this text?
Where is Reece Whatmore from?
What are the names of the classes that will be held in CFA A2 at different times?
When and where is 'Machine Design I' offered?
Where does Kemal Oflazer work?
When does Production Prep SOM 3 take place on Fridays?
What are the titles of the courses/activities listed under each number for the second part of the text?
Who won the softball game between NYU and Carnegie Mellon on Apr/02?
What are the names of the two production management courses for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2)?
What are the names of Mortensen's and Callan's courses?
How many undergraduates were admitted in 1989-90 academic year?
 What is the goal when using probabilistic MT models?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What services are available for veterans at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does the Special Topics in Signal Processing course take place?
What are the names of the instructors teaching classes 67262 Database Design and Development, 67266 Building Better Web Applications, and 67301 Networks and Telecommunications?
What is the purpose of the Office of Disability Resources' online portal?
What is the title of the thesis research course that takes place on Tuesdays from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM in room HOA 160?
 What is one benefit of FROMAGe in processing multimodal contextual information?
What was the name of the event where Women's Tennis played against Denison?
What is the course name of M4 T 08:15PM - 09:30PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Ciollaro's schedule?
What is the name of the instructor for Unit Operations of Chemical Engineering course?
 What was noteworthy about the model projections in the analysis?
What is the name of the instructor for 'Graduate Reading and Research' in the Spanish department?
What are the challenges in describing sequences of operations in computer systems?
What is the main purpose of the Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the location of the Silicon Valley Residency course?
What is the course code for Forlizzi and Saffer's Human AI Interaction class?
 What are the three different vocoders that are used for investigation with text2Mel models?
What is the duration of the Information Networking Institute course?
 What improvements were observed by the fertility filter on fill-in-the-middle benchmarks?
When and where does Study Abroad take place?
What are the names of the two courses that start with 'Process'?
 What size instances of TSP are illustrated in Figure 11?
 How many genes per individual were set in the genetic algorithm-based fine alignment in the text?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-36?
 How does training the adapters on the new diversified training data compare to the re-training setup on average for ACL dev?
Who teaches the following courses: Chemical Engineering Process Control and Data Science and Machine Learning in Chemical Engineering?
What are the days and times of the class 'Design of Artificial Intelligence Products'?
Is there an online source for the annual security and fire safety report?
When and where does the Products Studio II: Designing Products for Interactions class take place?
What is Dr. Lori Levin's title and field of expertise?
 What does the text propose as a common platform and benchmarks to drive the robotics field forward?
What are the days and times for Advanced Placement 1-72 A?
What is the significance of commitment to these standards for the Carnegie Mellon degree?
What is the name of the event that the swimmers are preparing for according to the post?
 What did the smooth curve through the generalized additive model show about the relationship between AGR and OS?
What is the name of the class that teaches about Dramaturgy?
Where does 'Infrastructure Management' take place?
 What method was used to analyze the mel-cepstral distortions between ground truths and synthesized samples?
What services does OIE provide for study abroad opportunities?
What are the days and times when each course is held?
Where can one find more information about the Main Office of the Language Technologies Institute?
 How does PointDR aim to create different point cloud views with various spatial perturbations?
What types of research projects does the university focus on?
What is the course name for class G W 07:00PM 07:50PM?
What is the name of Professor Matthews' class?
What sports are mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the person who will be working on video & media design for Brown's schedule?
What is the name of the institution that offers Independent Study courses in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Does University Health Services provide nutrition assistance to students?
On what date did Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete of the Week get recognized?
What is the schedule for the Instructor-led sessions in SOM 2?
Who are the performers in the Major Studio (Clarinet) class?
 What is the conclusion of the paper mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching 'Undergraduate Seminar I'?
What is a plaid scarf?
What are the names of the three courses taught by Loughran at DNM in Pittsburgh?
 What is the difference between the focused adversarial examples studied in the text and recent social engineering attacks on language models?
What are the building codes for these courses?
 What is the AV-SUPERB benchmark and why was it proposed?
What was announced for the 2024/2025 academic year?
What is the course code and title of the advanced editing and publishing course offered by Costanzo?
What does RSS stand for in relation to this text?
What is the name of the instructor at Spacagna AD in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
In which room is M.Arch 18.0 being taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the core program in Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation (MSAII) program?
When and where does the 'Designing for Production and Sustainability' course take place?
What are the days of the week when Collis teaches B4?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 10:00AM on Wednesdays?
How can I check the status of my PhD application?
Where is the University Police Department located?
When should students apply for admission to earn a minor in language technologies?
What is the name of the course that focuses on Behavior, Decision and Policy?
 How was StarCoderBase trained to evaluate long code files?
Who teaches the course 'Special Topics in Music: D TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor'?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered in MM 119 at CFA KRESGE on Monday?
What is the name of the event where Tartans competed on February 17, 2024?
When does the first class end and where is it located?
What are Mona Diab's research areas?
What happens if a car is parked in a permit area without a permit or at an expired meter?
What is the title of the topic being discussed in this special topics in HCI course?
 How many training instances are there in the Helpful and Harmless Assistant task?
What is the name of the course offered by Boerio in Naval Laboratory?
 What is the title of Reference [1] mentioned in the text?
What is the university policy regarding withdrawal of a degree?
What are the course codes for Special Topics in Computer Systems: Modern Computer Systems and Special Topics in Embedded Systems: Introduction to Embedded Deep Learning?
What are the names of the cities where each elective studio takes place?
What is the phone number of Gary Aldrich, who is a head coach at Andrew University?
 How can feedback be described according to the text?
What are Gorton, Papadimitriou, Steranka U's roles at the event?
 What is the main focus of the paper by Wuwei Lan et al.?
 What was the maximum error of the proposed simplified calculation method of the secondary transfer length?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Pittsburgh?
 How are the image-question pairs designed in the MMHAL-BENCH to ensure hallucinations in LMM responses?
How many sections are there for Undergraduate Complexity Theory and what are their respective class times?
 What should be strengthened further to facilitate the transition into a global economy powered by clean energy?
When was the next match after the one on Tuesday at 7:00 am CST?
Who teaches the 'Introduction to Adversarial Machine Learning: Introduction to Adversarial Machine Learning' course?
What was the time slot of Literature and Repertoire: Woodwinds class?
What are the locations of Schepkin BB and Chiu BC, and what are their abbreviations?
 What is the reasoning behind investigating MHA specialization as an alternative?
What are the days and times for Programming for Game Designers?
 What is the main focus of the research questions proposed in the text?
What are the days and times when Media Creation Studio 6.0 is offered?
 Which widely-used IR benchmarks were used to evaluate FiT5 in the experimental results?
What is the course code of the Architecture & Programming Principles class that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 5:30 PM to 6:50 PM?
What is the course name for 17945 in the schedule?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Literature & Repertoire for Flute?
What are the titles of the courses that Dean, Lightman, Badlani will teach at WEH 4623?
What are the two ways for students to add a course after the ADD period?
Which prize did he receive for his work on speech and audio processing in 2008?
What are some of Professor Daniel Fried's research interests?
What are the days and times of the 'Production Prep: John Proctor' class?
Who are the authors of the article?
Who teaches the Societal Computing Graduate Reading and Research?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Stragar in CUC AR 254?
Which instrument does each music studies studio focus on?
 What is known about B viruses in relation to egg adaptation and receptor binding?
 How are discrete inputs and outputs beneficial in reducing data size according to the text?
What are the course titles and instructors for lecture A on Monday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
What is the course code and title of the class that starts at 6:40 PM on Fridays?
What are the names of the books in the Contemporary American Fiction class?
Where are all these people located?
When is 'Directed Study' being held?
 How are the generations in the clique determined to be memorized images?
What are the names of the instructors for Chorus, Instrumental Ensemble, and Elective Studio 3-9?
Who teaches Special Topics: Wearable Health Technologies course?
What is the policy on track switching in the MIIS program?
 What is the significance of being able to assign meaning to subword units for language models?
What are the days of the week and timings for Computer Architecture and Systems, Neuromorphic Computer Architecture & Processor Design, Autonomous Driving, Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems, Wireless Networks and Applications, Estimation, Detection and Learning, and Information Theory Measures for Artificial and Natural Intelligence Systems?
What is the URL for the University Computing Policy at Carnegie Mellon University?
How can one obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
 What library was used to finetune different variants of FLAN-T5 on the COBRA training set?
When and where is the course 'Topics in French and Francophone Studies: Paris after 2015: The Impacts 2015 Terrorist Attacks Perceptions of the City' offered?
What happens if full-time, degree-seeking students do not have adequate medical insurance coverage?
 What is the relationship between the preoperative serum albumin to globulin ratio and CT features of non-small cell lung cancer?
What is the name of Gloria's class in Lighting Design?
What is the name of the course taught by Thompson A in the given text?
Where is Undergraduate Research held?
 What is special about WideResNet-50-2?
What are the course codes for Ph.D. Thesis and MAAD Pro-seminar I?
What is a Tartan?
What are the Department(s) that Scott Fahlman belongs to?
 What is the importance of subgroup analysis in scientific studies?
Who are the authors mentioned in this text?
Where did Wu K perform?
What is the name of the class that has a schedule on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 06:30 PM to 10:30 PM and Tuesday from 08:00 AM to 11:00 PM?
What are the names of the instructors who teach Aylmer AB and Gruber AC in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How did doubling the training iterations impact the text2code performance?
What is the name of the building where Harding teaches?
 What is the relationship between the specific pattern, the mouth, and the nose?
When did Carnegie Mellon University officially adopt the Scottish terrier as its mascot?
 What is recommended to be done at the international level for building renewable energy capacity?
What happens if a student cannot find a suitable open elective to replace an exempted course?
Who won the Battle for the Obelisk event?
What is the course for 'Production Prep: Love and Money: 9-21 Directing'?
 How does FLARE perform compared to all baselines across all tasks/datasets?
 What is the impact of including 50K ChatGPT mix-ups according to the experiments?
Where and when are Tennakoon's classes?
 Which encoder architectures are supported for speech-to-speech tasks in ESPnet-ST-v2?
Where is the online location for accessing the annual campus security and fire safety report?
What is the purpose of the academic disciplinary actions overview mentioned in the text?
Which instructor teaches 'Matrices and Linear Transformations' on Monday, Wednesday from 9:00 AM to 10:50 AM in the schedule?
How can one get in touch with the university's media contacts for news and events purposes?
What is the winning streak of Tartan Women's Tennis team?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the given time slots?
How is the GSA/Provost Conference Funding Program managed?
When does Lassman's class end?
 In the evaluations on VQAv2, what is the zero-shot val accuracy achieved by GILL?
 What defense strategy is mentioned in the text to reduce and audit model memorization?
 What is the significance of self-supervised learning techniques in the domain of speech processing?
What are the topics discussed in sections 4.2 and 4.3 of this text?
Who are the authors who instructed Mertz F?
What position does Maya Bala play?
What are the names of the courses offered by Professor Mierzewski in this semester?
When are the Production Prep sessions for Video & Media led by Gloria held?
 What is the Lagrangian defined as in the text?
Who are the instructors for Differential Calculus and Integral Calculus courses?
 What does the text suggest about the domain-specificity of the KALE vocabulary?
What is the topic of Loh C R's lecture?
 What is the purpose of LM fusion in E2E ASR?
Where is CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY located?
 How did the authors create synthetic training corpora for the non-compositional translation task?
Who teaches Mechanical Systems Experimentation?
 What were some of the suggestions from respondents to combat the trend towards engineering over research?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute (LTI) located?
What is the purpose of the Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores (PDEEC)?
Who are the instructors for Crawford AA, Gogolak B, and Kurland DD?
What are the class names and instructors for classes CTR, DNM, E, F, G, H, I, J?
Which courses have a class time on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA X?
What are the names of the courses taught by Shen on Monday?
What are the dates and times for Production Prep classes in Pittsburgh?
Who is generally considered as the final authority for assigning course grades?
What does the thesis defense protect the student from?
What is the location of Movement and Dance Elective?
What are 'LTI Focus Areas'?
When does the class 'Machine Learning with Large Datasets' take place?
What are the days and time of ETC Interdisciplinary Project II in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What does the experiment in the paper focus on and what were the main challenges?
What is the difference between transfer credit and course exemption at LTI Academic Policies?
What is the course name and instructor teaching 20th Century Russian Masterpieces in PH 125C on TR at 02:00PM?
Is there a fee waiver available for the School of Computer Science?
Is ETS accepting IELTS Indicator for admission purposes?
When and where is the Independent Study class held?
 What do workers need to click on to display the images in full size?
Who should students contact if they have questions about professional development opportunities at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of Independent Study 90948?
Who teaches the Special Topics: Market Engineering and Applications course?
What is the purpose of the resource page maintained by the Graduate Student Assembly for spouses, domestic partners and families of graduate students?
Can I apply for multiple programs at the School of Computer Science?
What is the location of Language Technologies Institute?
When is Fabricating Customization: Prototype offered by Ficca and what are the class details?
 What is Self-instruct?
What was the result of the match against Slippery Rock Oxford Athletic Club on February 2?
What is the date of the article about Isabella Sierra balancing volleyball and sorority life?
What is the email address of the LTI webmaster?
 What is the title of the paper by A. Vaswani and team presented at NeurIPS in 2017?
When and where does the PhD Thesis Research take place?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
 What is the resolution of images in the Downsampled ImageNet-1K dataset?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
What should students do before signing any IP agreements?
What is the name of the course that starts at 2:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
What are the names of the two presentations for Computational Finance?
Who wrote a paper titled 'Cooperating sequential processes' in 1968?
 What kind of software framework were the algorithms in each alignment step encapsulated into?
Who are the teachers listed in this text?
What is the name of Woodruff and Anderson's course on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday?
What is the difference between CMU's different departments and degree programs?
What is the name of the program mentioned in this handbook?
 Which authors published a paper in J. Biomed. Eng. in 2019?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's mission according to the document?
 What impact do high levels of CD8+TILs and CTL have on patients with AITL?
What is the name of the studio that offers advanced music studies for trombone in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the three instructors teaching Introduction to Music Technology?
 What is the task of text-to-image generation?
What is the title of lecture by Sadeh?
What are standard program lengths for graduate students?
Which award did Nils J. Nilsson receive in 2006?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
What was one of Berliner's achievements while serving in the U.S. Army?
At what time does Cervesato teach Principles of Functional Programming in Doha, Qatar? (Second session)
Where can students find information about the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is responsible for the fees of prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures, and referral to emergency room or specialists?
Where and when does Reilly teach Global Studies Research Seminar?
What are the names of each costume production session for 'A Little Night Music'?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on MWF from 10:00AM to 10:50AM at CUC FITNES in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course names of Computer Architecture and Systems, Neuromorphic Computer Architecture & Processor Design, Autonomous Driving, Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems, Wireless Networks and Applications, Estimation, Detection and Learning, and Information Theory Measures for Artificial and Natural Intelligence Systems?
When does Massaro's class start on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
What is the role of personal health and well-being in this university's educational experience?
When and where does Opie B2 teach 'Introduction to Repertoire and Listening for Musicians'?
What is the course code for Gordon's class?
When and where does Internship I: 1-3 take place?
 What discrepancies are found in the monthly BC column concentration comparisons over the NCP region?
In which room does SH 236 take place?
What are the class codes for Topics in Research 1-2 and Undergraduate Research 1-18?
What is the name of the course being offered by Dr. Creswell?
What does A.1.3 refer to according to the text?
What is the course name and credit hours of Health Economics?
 Why is class imbalance an issue in SemanticSTF and other benchmarks?
When is Yoga for Musicians class held?
 Why has scene understanding under adverse conditions attracted increasing attention?
What happens during LTI Orientation lectures?
 What are the limitations mentioned in the conclusion of the study?
 How does the training strength of λ affect the delay between token emissions?
Who are the instructors at Instructor TBA's studio?
What rights do students have under FERPA according to the university policy?
 What is the name of the model used in the text?
What is the course title for Advanced/Special Topics in AI/ML (GHC 4303)?
What is the hometown of player number 5 on the roster?
 Why are proxy metrics like FLOPs not always predictive of real-world efficiency?
What is the name of the class that teaches Couture Sewing Techniques?
How many meets are scheduled for the 2023-24 Tartan Men's Track and Field team?
What is the purpose of the secure online portal mentioned in the text?
Where is Serkan Piantino currently working?
In what city does Klatzky teach Applications in Cognitive Science?
Who are the instructors for Saxophone NB and Saxophone NC in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the courses taught by Ferrell?
Who are the instructors listed in this text?
In which class does Erdmann teach at 12:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
Name an organization that focuses on advancing women in machine learning.
Where can students find the University Policies related to their degree program?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching MIIS Capstone Project?
What is the course code and location of User-Centered Research and Evaluation C?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Solfege?
 Which language family has the smallest range of values?
 What trend was observed in the distributions of chainlink counts and chainlink connectivities for syndromes associated with speech problems of different severity levels?
Who teaches Nanostructured Materials?
What is the location of Room 6115 in relation to Wean Hall?
Where in the text can you find Policy Against Retaliation?
What additional requirements does LTI have for doctoral applications?
What is the name of the research professor emeritus at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How many teams participated in Task 1?
When is the class 'IDeATe Special Topics in Animation: Storyboarding' held?
What is the consequence for not identifying 'conceptual sources'?
What is the course code and title of the Contemporary Society in Germany, Austria and Switzerland class offered at 12:30PM in room PH A21?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: Sender: VAR Directing?
On what date and time does Carnegie Mellon play against King's (Pa.) in softball?
 What are the spatial patterns of changes in wind speed conditions under future scenarios?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Hines Competition 3.0 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course held by Bates at D4 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course title and location for M.Arch Studio: Praxis III?
 How did using the ROVER combination on the hypothesis produced by the 4 best ASR models impact system performance?
What is a free elective for MIIS students?
What are some helpful resources for me as a graduate admissions applicant?
 What is the dominant factor contributing to the increased solar PVPOT in the western United States?
Who conducted Societal Computing Pre-Thesis M in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the benefit of allowing the installation of user dependencies in Pentathlon?
What is the date and time of the Slippery Rock Last Chance meet?
When and where will Advanced Independent Study B TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania take place?
 What type of encoders are used for encoding intermediate ASR text in the model?
What is the name of the instructor for Professional Essentials for the Percussionist?
 What is the maximum absolute difference in BC column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval in the SOA region?
In which room is the User Experience & Human Computer Interaction course held on Thursdays?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
What is the main point that Scott wants to make about the relationship between Computer Science and Mellon College of Science?
According to the text, what is one way that universities contribute to society through their research activities?
What is the name of the student who took Major Studio (Percussion)?
 What did the experiments indicate about the efficiency and effectiveness of KALE versus the original BM25 baseline?
 What is the main goal of developing a modified version of the classical MNasNet model mentioned in the text?
What is the title of the Undergraduate Research Project?
 What kind of environments are outdoor environments described as in comparison to indoor environments?
What are the names of the instructors at this school, according to their positions?
What is the location of Handel's Dance/Light class?
What is the email address of Siddhant Arora?
What does the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook state about the possibility of deferring enrollment for more than one academic year?
When and where is Ethical Penetration Testing taught?
What is the address of SCS?
 What other capabilities does the proposed model have apart from image generation?
What is the course name, credit hours, and meeting time for HBH A301 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Biofabrication and Bioprinting in Business Administration 45701?
Who should self-identify with the Office of Disability Resources?
What are the days and times of North American Indigenous Music Seminar?
 How many templates did GPT-4 achieve a 100% task success rate on?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Monday at 7:00 PM in Modern Data Management?
What is the course taught by Brussalis in room HBH 1004?
Where is volleyball and basketball now held due to Skibo Gymnasium's construction?
When do University Policies on Grades and Grading come into effect?
 What is the focus of recent advancements in Object Goal Navigation (OGN)?
What are the days and times when 'Democracy and History: Thinking Beyond the Self' is offered?
What is the name of the person mentioned in this text?
 Why does CUTTLEFISH perform lightweight profiling?
Who are the instructors for Pre-Research Seminar?
Where can graduate students obtain their ID card at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of the Student Health Insurance Program?
Who teaches Shakespeare: Tragedies & Histories?
What are the days and times of Professor Sokalski's lectures for Structure of Materials (course code 27201)?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What are the course codes for the courses offered on Friday at Rohrbach Hall?
Where was the All-Atlantic Regional held?
What is the policy on withdrawal of degree by University?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
 What distance metric is used to find memorized training samples?
What are the three main components of a successful graduate school application according to this text?
What does FERPA stand for?
Where is Investment Analysis taught by Foster held?
What are the locations of Slayton's Probability Theory for Computer Scientists class?
What kind of retaliation is prohibited by the University?
What are the dates and times for the Molecular Techniques for Bioprocessing course?
Who teaches the 'How to Write Fast Code II' class that starts at 12:30 PM on Friday in San Jose, California?
Who are the instructors for the Honors Biochemistry and Biochemistry I classes?
What are the names of the classes that start with 'Rehearsal and Performance III'?
What kind of travel arrangements should students make when they have job interviews off-campus?
What is the name of the research communication course taught by Anderson at the university?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the courses with codes 84505 and 84600?
Who are the instructors for independent studies at various times and locations in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What conference is referenced for the Unsupervised multi-target domain adaptation through knowledge distillation?
Who teaches Topics in Film and Media: South Asian Cinemas: Bollywood & Beyond?
What does 'MTWRF' stand for?
How many courses are taught by Bodily in this text?
Where and when does Power System Expansion class take place?
What is the name of the course taught by Hornack at 2611 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Which opponent did Tartan Football team play on October 7th?
What is the location of each course?
What is the course title and location of Mortensen's class at PH 100?
 What are some examples of Android linters mentioned in the text?
 How are machine-readable transcriptions of documents typically produced?
When is the course 'Product Marketing' held?
What are the topics covered in Special Topics in Integrated Systems Technology?
Where was The Savannah Invitational held for Women's Golf?
 What metric is commonly adopted in previous PA work for comparison?
What is the statute of limitations for a Carnegie Mellon graduate student's degree?
What are the dates and times of Loh E T's lecture?
What is the course name and instructor's name of the first class listed in the schedule?
 What platform was used for human evaluation in the study?
What is the location of the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Clarinet LA?
What is the name of the event on January 20th?
Who teaches Geology 9.0 A MW 12:30PM 01:50PM POS 151?
Who taught at the Graduate Composition Project 1.0 A2 TBA TBA?
 What does the `truncate_number` function return?
What are the class timings for Probability and Statistical Inference I?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday through Friday evenings from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What are the rules for using recreational facilities in the Cohon University Center?
What is the name of the person who teaches the lecture titled 'Research Training: History' on Friday from 9:00 AM to 9:50 AM?
What is the transfer policy for PhD programs at SCS?
When was the Kiltie Band founded?
What is the name of the third type of support funding mentioned in this text?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered in MM 119 at CFA KRESGE on Wednesday?
What are the days and times of the student's classes?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Calculus II on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday?
What are the contact details for Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the significance of the trade-offs between properties mentioned in the text?
What are the two main sections in University Policies on Grades and Grading?
What are the course codes for Advanced Statistical Theory A and Modern Causal Inference?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:00 AM on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in room PH 126A?
What is the purpose of First generation/first in family to attend college programs at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where does Francis Parker live?
Which courses are taught by Gemperle?
What is an example of how to ensure accessibility for blind users?
What is the name of the open-source knowledge representation system and inference engine that Scott Fahlman is currently working on?
What are the days and times of the classes listed in this schedule?
What are the course codes for Collaborative Piano II to VI?
What are the course codes for Principles of Software Construction and Special Topics in Societal Computing?
Who teaches Deep Learning Systems: Algorithms and Implementation?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 2:00 PM?
 What is the purpose of the voice activity detection in the speech processing component?
 How many examples were included in the dataset for learning unified representations?
How can a student satisfy the writing requirement?
 What impact did the new filters have on the training data?
When does the course 'Germany, Austria and Switzerland in the 20th Century' take place?
 What is the main goal of achieving global carbon neutrality, as mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Saxophone), Elective Studio (Horn), Elective Studio (Trumpet), Elective Studio (Trombone), Elective Studio (Euphonium), and Elective Studio (Tuba)?
What is the name of the office that handles research at CMU?
 What is the common practice for probabilistic CO solvers mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the third type of support funding mentioned in this text?
When is the Film Acquisition course held?
How can a student get general information or ask general questions about The HUB at CMU?
What was the novel feature of Accent operating kernel?
Are there any specific courses or subjects that a student must take to graduate from this program?
What are the three sections of Managing Networks & Organizations offered at Sudbury?
What is the course code and title of the Geographic Information Systems course offered on Monday, Wednesday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
What is SafeWalk?
In which page of the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook can you find information about Presentation requirement?
 What is the name of the language model based on GPT-3.5 architecture?
Which classes are taught by Professor Goranson in the given schedule?
 Why does the concrete with greater compressive strength have a smaller transfer length?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the time slots for 'Chemical Product Design (9.0)' taught by Gounaris?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Physics I for Science Students in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 4:00 PM to 4:50 PM in room HOA 224?
What is the duration of a typical student's study period under the Professional Preparation Track?
What is the page number where these policies can be found?
What is the course code for 'Fundamentals of Programming and Computer Science'?
Where can students find the most up-to-date information about public health safety requirements?
 Can CodeBERTScore be used in a new language without a language-specific model?
What event did Tartans participate in during Fall Semester?
Where is the class held that starts at 8:30 PM on Monday for Financial and Managerial Accounting II in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the name of the last author listed in this article?
What is the main purpose of the MCDS program according to the text?
What is the duration of Independent Study 6.0?
Who teaches Physics 33104 Experimental Physics Lecture 2?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on MW from 4:00 PM to 5:45 PM in TEP 2119?
What are the three locations mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
When does the academic calendar start according to section 6.7?
What are the two options for obtaining a Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems degree?
What are the days and times of Singers?
 How is the intermediate estimate ˆZ(c) obtained for each speaker c?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What is the course code for Teaching Techniques for Computer Science?
What is the name of the event where Women's Swimming and Diving competed?
What are the expectations for students attending LTI Orientation Faculty Research Talks?
 What percentage of the data was excluded from further analysis?
Can students take electives outside SCS?
What is the office location of Daphne Ippolito?
What is the course code for Graduate Core Course: Social?
What is the duration of each project mentioned?
What is the name of the school where Phelps 67391 is an independent study in Information Systems?
Where does Chalacheva teach her study abroad program?
What is the location of the school mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the class that focuses on Costume Design?
 What is the value of NLLB at the 6th position in the provided text?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Chemistry and Sustainability (Das) and Advanced Organic Chemistry (Collins)?
In what room does 'WEH 5310' teach their class?
What is the title of the course being taught by Shamos?
Where is the event 'Get Career Ready: Unlocking Pathways to Success 3.0 W3 M 11:30AM 12:45PM' held?
What is the name of the course for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa - Stage Management?
What is the name of the speaker who talks at 01:00PM?
What are the deadlines for MHCI and MSPM programs?
What is the name of the course Demirkoparan teaches?
What are the class timings for Elective Studio (Beginning Piano Class) and Elective Studio (Jazz Piano I Class)?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule that start with 'Production Prep'?
 What is reference-based evaluation in machine translation?
 Which reference discusses the topic of language models as few-shot learners?
What are the days and times of the classes offered in Kigali, Rwanda by Umuhoza?
How will I know my User ID?
Where was the Destin Resort located?
What is the relationship between Franko and WEH 5201?
In what room is Communicating in the Global Marketplace held?
 How can input sequence lengths be reduced when using discrete speech units?
What is Edmund M. Clarke's current position?
When and where does Prototyping for Interaction Design take place?
What does DNM stand for in the text?
What is Chenyan Xiong's email address according to the text?
What is the course code for ConLanging: Lrng. Ling. & Lang Tech via Constru Artif. Lang.
What is the location of Wieckowski's class?
 What is one direction proposed to reduce communication bottleneck in distributed ML model training?
What is notable about Watson's ability to understand slang and idiom according to Berliner?
What time does the 'Media Design' class start on Sunday?
 What method is used to integrate incremental training data from data augmentation?
What is the role of Carnegie Mellon Athletics in developing leaders?
Are there other libraries open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
What is the purpose of section 4 in this text?
What is the location of the 11:00 AM class on Tuesday?
 Why is block-wise processing important for implicit alignment modeling approaches?
What is the course code for Marketing Management taught by Srinivasan?
What are the locations of Galbraith UC and Whipple V courses?
What is the title of Young's course in Working with Dramaturgs?
What is the course code for SCS Honors Undergraduate Research Thesis?
What are some risks associated with Bitcoin?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Programming Usable Interfaces classes?
Who is the instructor for ooqi 70508 and where are they located?
Who are the instructors for Computer Architecture and Systems, Neuromorphic Computer Architecture & Processor Design, Autonomous Driving, Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems, Wireless Networks and Applications, Estimation, Detection and Learning, and Information Theory Measures for Artificial and Natural Intelligence Systems?
What is the name of the course taught by Shi at what time on Tuesday and Thursday?
What computer did Reddy use to process speech waveforms for his class project on speech recognition?
Does the Financial Aid Office of Carnegie Mellon assist in completing paperwork for Stafford loans?
When and where does the course 'ECE CO-OP 0-3 A' take place?
What is the name of each class held on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What are the main contributions of the paper highlighted in the text?
Who is the instructor for 'Production Preparation: Project Manager'?
What is the name of the lecture that starts at 12:20 PM in room CFA 214 and discusses 'Constructing Value(s): Economies of Design'?
What are the names of the two production preparation sessions for Scenic Design and Costume Production?
How does the MIIS degree help students according to the text?
 What are some common techniques to reduce gradient communication in distributed training?
 How do multi-task multimodal benchmarks contribute to research in audio-visual learning?
Where and when does the PhD Independent Study course meet, and what are its credit hours?
 How many EMA locations have an MRI point ranked as important?
In what city and at what time does the lecture 'Material Histories' start?
In which section of the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook can I find information about ID cards?
Can a student appeal their grade if they believe there was an error in the way one of their answers on an exam was graded?
What should supported students do to arrange their winter break time?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Thesis Research 3-36 A2 class?
What is the name of the ensemble that will be performing at M 08:20PM in CFA ACH?
When and where does Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice take place?
 How can sentence modification be achieved according to the text?
What are the names of the courses offered under Sound Design (K)?
Who is the author of 'Shinn-Cunningham'?
Where is the search form located on this website?
Who teaches Designing w/CARE:Co-Creating Solutions for Complex Care Coordination in Oncology?
What are the days, times, and locations of Independent Study in HCI-UG sessions?
When is Production Prep: A Little Night Music: Costume Production held?
What are some aspects of language that make it interesting as a scientific subject and hold potential for practical systems?
Who are the students mentioned in this text?
When and where are Advanced Topics in Analysis Convex Functions held?
 How was the AGR value defined?
 How does Pentathlon allow users to evaluate efficiency gains in their machine learning system?
 What training approach has been tried with limited results for indigenous languages according to Nagoudi et al. (2021) and Zheng et al. (2021)?
 What was the main source of primary OA (POA) in Beijing?
 What method was used to analyze the genetic rules of fruit color in Schisandra?
 What do both GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product show consistent behavior in, regardless of the differences observed?
In which class does Erdmann teach at 03:30 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is Thought reading programs and when were they developed at CMU?
Where is 20th Century Russian Masterpieces taught?
 What is a current limitation of the FROMAGe model during inference?
 What is the learning rate used in the training?
What is the hometown and high school of Akira van de Groenendaal's teammate?
 What are the speech recognition data sources used for ASR training?
Who teaches DevOps and Continuous Integration?
 What external object vocabulary is used in the proposed approach?
What is the course name and instructor for the course offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 09:30 AM?
Who developed smart adaptable traffic signals at CMU's Robotics Institute?
When and where will 'Independent Study' be held?
When and where does the Electronic and Computer Music class take place?
When does Le Goues and Kaestner's Computational Social Science Research Design and Data Analytics class take place?
 How long does it take to decode OWSM v3 for each 30-second utterance using greedy search?
 How does the proposed model achieve strong performance on image generation?
On which date did the Mount Union Tune Up take place?
What are the core requirements discussed in section 4.3?
What is the topic of Owen's course?
 What are two common programming languages used for Android app development mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the cities where each instrument's advanced music studies studio is located?
What is the role of Instructor TBA AD in this text?
 Which optimizer was used in the experiments conducted for the submission?
What is The WORD, according to the text?
 How many different training runs were executed for the experiment?
What is the purpose of the Human Subjects in Research section in The WORD?
What are the names of the instructors for BXA Studio (1st semester) and Piano Performance I?
 How does previous work approach dialogue discourse parsing?
 How did the diurnal variations in D50 suggest the local primary emissions impacted CCN activity?
What is the purpose of the 'Selective and Federated Search' section according to the text?
 Which benchmark suite of diverse spoken language understanding tasks is mentioned in reference [6]?
Where is Yasuhara's office located at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the student who taught 'The Ultimate Heavy Metal Class'?
What was the result of the team's sixth match against Berry at Juniata College - Huntingdon, Pa.?
 What is the role of external language models in E2E ASR systems?
How does GSA improve the graduate student experience at CMU?
Where are Add, drop, withdrawals, and pass/no pass election procedures and deadlines described?
What is required for graduate students in MIIS to make arrangements with Student Health Services?
Who are the performers at Van Hoesen, Shields DA?
 Why are non-functional properties important in Android applications?
Who took James Gosling's headshots?
What is the name of the institute discussed in section 2?
Where did Raj attend high school?
What is the name of the instructor for Production Prep: SOM 3: VAR Directing?
Who can sign in with Google?
What is the email address of Graham Neubig?
Where is the Materials Science and Engineering Teaching Internship located?
What are the roles and responsibilities for each event?
What is the title of the course that starts at 6:30 PM on Wednesday and ends at 9:20 PM in room HBH 1206?
 How is the adjustment angle of the axis of rotation roughly calculated in the physical model of the rotary axis coarse alignment?
What is the purpose of administering the International Teaching Assistant (ITA) Test?
 How many memorized images are identified with 0 false positives in the study?
Who are the teachers who taught Form and Analysis of Music in Practicum 3.0?
Who teaches Acting for Leadership and Communication at the Pittsburgh campus?
 What level of branch coverage was achieved for methods used in the study?
Where is the location of the course 'Urban and Regional Economic Development'?
 Would Duke of York and Frederick link to the same entity’s article on Wikipedia?
Which instrument does Marcinizyn focus on at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)?
What is the location of Independent Study in Literary and Cultural Studies?
 Why is the linear classifier preferred over the heuristic baseline in the final model?
 What ASTM standard provides guidance on the thickness of the CT specimen for studying crack propagation?
Who teaches the Production Prep: New Works: VAR Directing A class?
How many authors are there for this dissertation?
 What proxy metrics are often utilized to report efficiency in previous efforts?
 What results are reported for mixture of different imprecise lebels in the text?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the course name for 'Owen'?
Does MCDS issue waivers based on previous study at a U.S. high school, college or university?
Where is the Modern Regression class held?
Where are Gesling Stadium, Wiegand Gym and pool located in relation to Cohon University Center?
When and where will Managing Digital Transformation be held?
What is the course name, instructor, and meeting time for Chan's ST: Polymers for a Sustainable Future class?
 What measures were taken to ensure the safety of Jais-chat during interaction?
Who is the instructor for Differential and Integral Calculus?
 What are some aspects of E2E ASR covered in the survey mentioned?
What are the units for Biochemistry I (Biological Sciences 03232)?
What is the title of the handbook?
How many faculty members are mentioned in this text?
Where is the Design Thesis Practicum: Scenic Thesis E located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What does the paper explore the efficacy of incorporating as inputs across a spectrum of speech processing tasks?
 How does the PAR architecture deal with NAR accuracy issues related to incorrect target length?
What is the course code and instructor for Undergraduate Complexity Theory offered by Sutner?
What is the name of Vincent Naik's lecture on Neural Correlates of Learning and Memory?
 What is the purpose of evaluating prospective LMMs using MMHAL-BENCH and LLaVA-Bench?
Who are the instructors for Mobile and Pervasive Computing?
What problem does the author's recent research investigate?
What kind of programs does SCS offer?
When and where is Black and White Photography I offered in the evening?
 What is the base model used for KALEIDO in the Model Training phase?
What is required from a sponsored student to confirm their status and have their tuition paid by another party?
How does MCDS handle repeated instances of academic dishonesty?
 What type of pain reduction benefits are mentioned as similarities between UE transplant and targeted muscle reinnervation (TMR) in the text?
What happens to the grades of a student who takes undergraduate or master's level courses through the university's cross-registration program?
What are the graduate degrees offered by the LTI?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Voice)?
What is the location of the school?
 According to the text, can the batch size or input size be increased without increases in overall runtime for framework-bound models?
What is the purpose of the capstone requirement in MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
When is the 'Physical Mechanics I' course held?
What are the days and times for the 'Intermediate Game Studio: Real Time 3D' course?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
Who are the authors of Music and Technology Project 12.0?
Who teaches Language Diversity & Cultural Identity in-person at PH 126A?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for the classes held on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 2:00 PM?
Where can students find more information about the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course that Ania McMahon teaches?
What are the names of the courses taught by Light at Entertainment Technology Programming for Game Designers?
What is the instrument that student Kostyniak specializes in?
What is the process for investigating and adjudicating violations of the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
What is the course code of Physics I for Engineering Students held by Lachance E?
What is the name of the handbook mentioned in the text that provides more detailed information about graduate student life at CMU?
 What are some differences between multi-objective search and single-objective search?
How many semesters of academic study are required to complete the MIIS program?
What is the location of the Internship course?
What are the credit hours of Poulin's Cultural Policy & Advocacy in the US class?
What are the days and times for Risteski's Deep Learning Systems course?
 When was the Xbox One X video game console released in Australia?
 How can vectorization across both hypotheses and utterances accelerate the decoding process?
 What is the purpose of the AM Estimator mentioned in the text?
What is the phone number for Daphne Ippolito?
What is the purpose of Domestic Partner Registration?
How can one get more information about the Carnegie Mellon Cheerleading Program?
What are the class names and their respective days/times for the classes listed in the schedule?
Are tuition costs eligible for Student Emergency Support funding at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How does the PA strategy compare to the FA strategy in terms of annotation costs?
 Why is the chosen robot platform considered safe to use in labs and homes?
What are the class timings for Lighting Production J?
 What is the objective of MBR decoding?
Where can eligible students find the registration instructions and forms for their domestic partner?
What is the 'Grandfather' policy according to LTI's academic policies?
Who teaches Genomes, Evolution, and Disease: Advanced Quantitative Genetic Analysis?
What is the name of Albertus C's class?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Trumpet) and Elective Studio (Trombone)?
Who is teaching Supplementary Readings 3-12?
Why does the text suggest that JavaScript should be enabled in a browser to use this website?
Who are the instructors listed in this table?
What is the name of Arscott's Pre-Thesis class?
How will the adequacy of the academic background be assessed?
How many independent studies are listed in this text?
 What capabilities does the proposed multimodal language model demonstrate?
 What were the displacement constraints for the lower loading hole in the finite element model?
What is the course code and instructor for Physics-Based Rendering offered by Gkioulekas?
Is it possible to work on a Ph.D. part time?
When does the registration for SCS25 Kickoff Celebration close?
What are the class codes for McKay's Acting III: Greeks classes and Stewart's Voice for the Stage III class?
How often are rehearsals during football season?
 What is the goal of the BLOOM 3B model released by BigScience?
What is the role of Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation in the Division of Student Affairs?
What are the names of all instructors listed?
Is there a maximum limit for completing the master’s degree at MCDS?
What are the dates and times of Data Mining course?
 What is the main idea behind the hierarchical planning with progress tracking discussed in the text?
What resources are available on the Graduate Student Assembly website for spouses, domestic partners and families of graduate students?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the course code for Scenic Design for Live Spaces?
What is the main point of the text?
What is the course code for Maker Series: Intro to Modern Making?
What do most MIIS alumni have within six weeks after graduation?
What happens if an international student fails to maintain full-time status?
Who teaches Studiocraft 2 at PCA 304 on MW from 09:00AM-10:50AM?
 What was connected to the steel wire strand as part of the electrochemical corrosion process?
When does Levinson's Yoga for Musicians class end?
What does a good letter from the faculty indicate?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
 What is the significance of using a pre-trained language model in Prompt2Model?
 Which model significantly outperforms previous neural solvers on all three settings in the experiments?
Who should students contact if they have inquiries about the application of Carnegie Mellon University's statement of assurance?
What is the name of Tayur's course on Operations Management?
What is the MIIS degree?
When does the lecture 'Environmental Engineering: 9.0' take place?
 Which model performed better with SELF-REFINE across all tasks, GPT-4 or GPT-3.5?
What is the course name for Teaching Mathematics with Technology?
What is the course code for Geographic Information Systems?
What type of surface is used on the field?
What is John Proctor's role in Production Prep for Scenic Design?
 What heuristic is adopted for selecting sub-structures in FA and PA?
What are the times and locations of Howell's Undefined Course?
What is the time duration of User-Centered Research and Evaluation: D class?
 What is the purpose of template-based data processing in OpenMatch-v2?
Does the university offer housing to graduate students?
What is the title of Ferrell's class?
Can I apply to a Ph.D. program with only an undergraduate degree?
Who teaches the Carnegie Scenic course?
 What models are used in the experimental setup?
What is the role of Williams H?
What are the names of Brookes' classes on Wednesday?
What is the course code for MSCS Career Planning?
What is the main difference between Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy according to this document?
What is the name of the magazine published by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science for news and events updates?
When and where is Stagecraft Lighting (3 units) F1 held?
 What is the main focus of the OpenMatch-v2 toolkit?
 How can the decoder in transducer models be simplified based on research findings?
Who teaches From Augustine to Avatars: Personal Narratives Across Media?
What is the name of the Distributed Game Studio - Game Art course taught by Chan at DNM in Pittsburgh?
What is the purpose of the expedited admissions process for students who want to transfer into the MIIS program?
What is the location of ENGAGE in Wellness: Looking Forward 1.0 A1?
 What evaluation metrics are used for DPAR?
What are the names of the courses offered in Korean language and culture at the University?
What is the name of the class that meets on Wednesday evenings from 6:20 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is the course code for Advanced Designer Draping?
At what time and location is Musical Theatre Literature and Repertoire being held?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Student Assembly?
How does the commitment to these standards contribute to an academic community?
What happens if a student is put on academic probation and fails to meet the remedial requirements set by their advisor in the following semester?
What is the name of the teaching assistantship mentioned in the text?
What are the circumstances under which a final grade can be appealed?
What opportunity does the text mention for growth and engagement?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at CMR F205 on B3 TR?
When does the 'Business Fundamentals for Analytic Professionals' course take place?
What resources are available for MS students in the Language Technologies Institute?
Who is Kangas and what did they do?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Friday from 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM in SH 105?
How many teams participated in the Guy & Jeanne Kuhn Invitational 'A' Team?
Who teaches Multidimensional Calculus at 11:00AM on MWF?
 How do cross-encoders compare to bi-encoders in terms of performance on multilingual tasks?
 What is the purpose of the reinforcement learning stage in the Multimodal RLHF pipeline?
What sports events are mentioned in the text?
 How does Unlimiformer differ from Memorizing Transformers in terms of applying retrieval attention?
What should an instructor do if they believe a grade was assigned in error?
What is the name of the lecture that starts at 10:00 AM in room MM307 and discusses 'Advanced Synthesis Options Studio II'?
Who are the instructors for Navigation and Naval Ship Systems II-Weapons courses?
What was the final score of the game played on Sun, Jan/28?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
Who are the main categories of people that can be found at this institute according to the menu options provided?
What is Venny Ayudiani's academic program?
What are the three courses offered by Larocca in Keyboard Studies (Graduate) for students?
 What is the time in hours required for training the CUTTLEFISH model with VGG-19 Params.?
What are the days and times when each course is offered?
 How is the initial population of patches generated in the search process?
What was the reason for using robots to clean up Three Mile Island?
What was the time duration of this session?
What are the names of the courses offered in Process and Variation Control and Health Finance?
When should independent study contracts be submitted?
Where and when is Intermediate Studio: Graphic Novel held, and who teaches it?
What is the course name and location for Physics II?
 What happens to the strain at the third strain gauge according to Figure 6?
In what time slot are Scenic Design and Costume Production being held?
What are the days, times, location, and instructors for class A4 TBA - TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Is it appropriate to contact faculty members directly with specific questions about their research?
 What is the performance value provided in the text for the model IRNet with Mixup?
 Why do they train all their models only once?
What is the purpose of the LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on TR from 12:30PM to 01:50PM at CUC ACTVY in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What languages were the models expected to perform well in?
What are the procedures for adding, dropping or withdrawing from undergraduate and master's level courses?
Who are the instructors teaching the courses listed in the table?
What are the days and times of Alexis's classes at WEH 7316?
What is the name of the research topic for Brasier's MS Research project?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
What is the purpose of the inRES Startups initiative at this institution?
What are the two time slots mentioned in the text where sender production management work will be done for Penelope?
How can students make appointments at UHS?
When is Managing Digital Transformation class held by Smith B?
What is the name of the class held on Tuesday from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM in room MM 103?
Where can students find information about parking availability on campus?
What are the standard degree requirements and certification process for Master’s students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for 'Designing Experiences for Learning'?
 According to the text, what provides re-ranking with neural models as a cloud service?
When and where does Production Prep: TBA 8: Costume Production H take place?
What are some of the responsibilities of GSA?
 What are two key renewable energy sources mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Advanced SIS: Ceramics?
What are the residency requirements for PhD students in LTI?
What are the course codes for Young's Experimental Writing class and Handel's Intro to Welding (MIG & TIG) class?
 How was AGR associated with OS on the right side of the inflection point?
What are the names of the courses offered by Instructors TBA 54610 and 54611?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by instructor Lee B2?
 Which denoising schedule is found to be superior on discrete diffusion models?
What are the names of the courses being offered at PCA 103 and what are their respective durations?
Where was the YSU Icebreaker held?
What is CMU Alert?
What is the page number where this information can be found in the MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
When and where is Programming Usable Interfaces: Advanced PUI Lab held?
How many instructors are listed for Independent Study in Opera?
What are the names of the courses offered on Monday at El Zanfaly Hall?
 What is recommended when batch sizes are small to reduce framework overhead?
What is the course schedule for Operating System Design and Implementation?
 What task did the authors showcase the effectiveness of unified representations in, using a simple linear probe setup?
 How many seeds were the results in Figure 1 averaged across?
 What phenotypic effects on speech are reported for FGFR3?
When and where are the Probability and Statistical Inference II classes held?
What is the course name, instructor, and meeting time for Grossmann's Advanced Transport Phenomena class?
 How does MAGMA improve upon the approach proposed by Frozen?
What are the dates and times of the pre-thesis session for Societal Computing 17802?
What is the course code for Advanced SIS?
What is the course code for 'Quantitative Methods for Policy Analysis'?
 What is the main limitation mentioned regarding the examples used in the current approach?
How was the Task Force able to design the official Scotty costume for Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday from 9:30 AM to 11:50 AM?
What is the name of the program that Funded under our 2022 Call for ERPs, this year-long initiative will have Instituto de Filosofia (Universidade do Porto) and the Software & Societal Systems Department at CMU as partners?
 Why does the formulation spare the need for an extra task-specific header?
What is the course code for Climate Change: Chemistry, Physics and Planetary Science?
Who are the instructors for the events at 57923 and 57944?
What are the days and times for Media & Communication Design II class?
What are the days and times of Reading in Forms: Poetry's classes?
What is the duration of an interruption due to temporary disability?
 Why does factorizing the initial layers in neural networks not result in a significant speedup?
What is the course being offered by Berges, Fehlmann in Special Topics?
What are the GRE and TOEFL report codes required by this institution for international students?
What is the title of Ott's course on venture governance?
 What is the maximum relative difference between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component dust retrieval in the BOD region?
Who is the quarterback of the team?
What are the financial issues mentioned in this text?
What do I need to know about taking the Duolingo test?
 How does multi-task training contribute to improving machine translation performance?
Where can you find more information about Anatole Gershman?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the CFA KRESGE building?
When does Merrell teach his Intermediate Studio: Color class?
What is the purpose of Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)?
Who are required to evaluate and certify the English fluency of all instructional personnel, including teaching assistants and interns?
What is the university's mission?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
How many students are listed for each instrument in Major Studio?
What are the broad guidelines that students follow when constructing their course of study?
What is the URL for The Graduate Student Assembly website's resource page for spouses, domestic partners and families of graduate students?
 Which questions were crafted as simple yes/no/unsure questions?
What is the name of each person involved in each event?
What is the course code and title of the class that starts at 5:30 PM on Thursday?
What are the two policy categories mentioned in the text?
What are the class times and locations for Basketball Skills A3's Racquetball course?
 What is the focus of the paper mentioned in the text?
In which page number can you find the introduction to the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the name of the course offered at time slot E?
What are the days and times of Musuraca and Eslami's User-Centered Research and Evaluation?
What could be the worst consequence if a program executes an incorrect sequence?
 Which LM was used for the validation method described in the text?
 What is the main contribution of the proposed model according to the text?
According to the text, what will be recorded on a Carnegie Mellon transcript if a course was taken through cross-registration?
What are the class names and their respective instructors for the classes held on Monday at MM 211 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Translation Technologies?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:00AM and ends at 09:50AM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
At what time does the Practicum in Child Development start?
What is the location of the second lecture in Differential and Integral Calculus?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: Mr. Burns: Media Design and Production Prep: Mr. Burns: Stage Management?
 What advantage does LoRA have over Adapters and Prompt tuning in terms of inference parameters?
Who is William 'Red' Whittaker?
What is the course code for Rapid Prototyping Technologies?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
What was the result for the team during the UAA Match Play Championship held at San Destin Resort in Florida?
Who are the main stakeholders in maintaining and updating the content of this website?
How many posts, replies, and media are there on this page?
What are the course codes, instructor names, meeting times, and locations of all courses listed?
 What is the goal of designing a preference-based evaluation in this context?
What are the class names and their respective instructors for the classes held on Monday at MM A11 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the lab that focuses on Meaning in Language?
 What is the role of Vision Language Model (VLM) in capturing images during exploration steps?
What is the office location of Teruko Mitamura?
Where is the lecture 'Fundamentals of Programming and Computer Science 12.0' held?
How many credits can be added to a course according to the text?
What is the location of Digital Service Innovation class?
When is the Production Prep: Gloria session for Costume Production scheduled to take place?
 What does RL1 represent in the context of distribution of utility among possible users?
 What method was used to exclude samples from inter-laboratory comparisons?
How can you contact Anatole Gershman?
How many different types of collaborative piano studies are mentioned in this text?
What is the location of the university mentioned in the text?
What is the time duration for each class listed in the text?
 What type of sampling methods were used for the WMT22 EN-DE dataset?
Who teaches the Video & Media Design class and when do they teach it?
Are tuition costs eligible for Student Emergency Support funding?
What are the days and times of the week that the Computational Biology Internship: 3.0 class meets?
What is the name of the department that focuses on career and professional development?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Physics for Future Presidents in Lec 4?
What is the course code for Foundations of Blockchains?
Where does Pisztora teach his Linear Algebra class?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
 What was the title of the paper presented at the IWSLT 2023 evaluation campaign?
How many instructors are listed for Independent Study in Solfege?
What are some options available for students in course work during the semester of their anticipated birth?
What is the course title, instructor's name, and class time for Harding's class?
What is the purpose of designating an emergency contact address in SIO?
Which studio specializes in Chamber Music and what are its initials?
What are the restrictions on course requirements for Language and Information Technologies degree?
Who is the instructor for Sound Design K?
How many teams participated in the NCAA Championships?
What are the reasons for longer-than-standard degree completion?
 What is the drawback of the compression method used by LightHuBERT?
 What type of rewrite is considered in the ProsocialDialog dataset?
What are the course codes for Independent Study (1-18) and Advanced Organic Chemistry (Collins)?
What is a fun fact about Scottish terriers according to the text?
What are the course names and locations for the two M.S. Graduate Project classes?
What is the name of the Production Prep course for Sender Sound Design?
What is the name of the event that Weild's class prepares for?
What was the result of the match between #32 Kenyon and #14 Carnegie Mellon?
What are the days and times of the Carnival Gateway Special Project course?
What is the course code and title of the Ph.D. Qualifying Examination?
Who is Emile Berliner?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Multimedia Design?
How many units of LTI courses and SCS courses should a student take in order to meet the criteria for MLT degree attainment?
 What are some streaming 1st-pass and attention-based 2nd-pass rescoring techniques mentioned in the text?
When was the Department Honors Top Academic Athletes at Annual Celebration held?
What is the purpose of the CMU Policy on Master’s Student Statute of Limitations?
How did Mach kernel incorporate ideas from Accent?
What are the names of Budnik's classes in ANS 101?
How can students minimize the impact of job interviews on their final semester coursework?
Where do I mail my transcripts and how many should I send?
Who instructs PR 53617 at Concept Development for Location-Based Entertainment?
What is the phone number of Carnegie Mellon University's Language Technologies Institute?
What is the title of the course being offered at 12:30 PM on Monday?
At what time does Deserno's Supervised Reading in Nuclear Physics lecture start?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Meyer?
Where is the document summarizing processes available to graduate students who seek review of a decision at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the instructor for the 'Production Prep: Penelope' courses?
When does Peca teach Cyber Risk Modeling in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the courses in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Tuesday and Thursday at 11:00AM?
How many unnamed instructors are there in the text?
What are the class names for Dejeu's last three classes?
What are financial issues that graduate students may face at CMU?
Who is the first author mentioned in the text?
When and where does Boatwright teach Managing People and Teams: Managing People and Teams?
Where did the Golfweek Invitational take place?
What is the course title of Campbell's class?
What are the course codes for Drama 54006 and Drama 54495?
What are the class timings for Early Undergraduate Research?
 Who built Burj Khalifa?
What is the significance of including information about other resources in Appendix A of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
In which location and at what time does Severnini teach Phd Econometrics I?
What is recommended for websites needing protection from abuse?
Who is teaching the class 'Want to be a Mother: Production Prep'?
Where and when is the Mount Olive Multi taking place?
Where can students find information about graduate student dining plans?
What are the three Capstone courses that all MCDS students must take?
What was the result of the Carnegie Mellon Invitational on March 25th?
What is the title of the course that starts at 6:30 PM and ends at 10:00 PM on Tuesday?
What are Louis-Philippe Morency's research interests?
What is the Carnegie Mellon Code?
 How many training steps were used for the model trained with size 8x8, 512, 128, learning rate 0.1, and AUC-ROC evaluation metric?
What are the names of the instructors for Special Topics: Time Series and Independent Study?
 What study is highlighted in reference [1]?
What are the two actions suggested by Athletics to help promote sustainable initiatives?
When was the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval (SIGIR) Academy inaugurated?
What is the name of the course offered by Artist Diploma Recital?
What is a Duolingo score equivalent to a TOEFL iBT score?
What are the class times for Lighting Design I?
Where and when did Women's Golf play on March 25th?
What is the course code for Writing for the Professions offered by George?
 What observation does CUTTLEFISH make about factorizing early layers in CNNs?
What is the name of the month when this student handbook was revised last?
Which team won the first PAC Women's Basketball Title on Feb 24?
What are the names of the instructors listed in this text who teach at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the handbook that contains Appendix A?
What is the purpose of grade requirements in Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems?
What are the names of all the courses listed in this text, along with their respective instructors?
What is MIIS Graduate Student Handbook mentioned in the text?
What is the course name and instructor for Matter and Interactions II?
In which city did Mahon conduct their research?
What is the course title of the class taught by Fitzsimmons on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What is the name of the event where Tartans placed fourth at UAA Indoor Championships?
What are the days and times of Rafson's Hines Competition?
What are the names of the instructors for the course 'Introduction to Computer Systems' at the Information Networking Institute?
What is the purpose of creating a Quiz in CTAT?
What are the days and times of Lighting Design I?
What are the names of the instructors teaching E-Learning Design Principles and Methods course?
Which resources does the university provide for family and dependents according to section 6.12?
What are the days and times of Physics I for Engineering Students held by Hassanzade D?
Does the university offer housing to graduate students?
What are the names of the courses taught by Moore in the given text?
What does 'FCT' stand for in this context?
 What is the significance of emphasizing the interpretability aspect of the proposed method in the text?
What is the responsibility of the entire community at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the location of Web Application Development?
What is the name of the center for student diversity and inclusion at CMU?
What is the main topic of this text?
 What is the significance of Schisandra as mentioned in the text?
What types of support funding are available for enrolled students?
 What has been hypothesized as the primary factors affecting FLOPs and wallclock inference latency?
Which sport is being discussed in this text?
What is the title of the second event?
How many international students are required to apply for CPT?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Briere?
What are the institution codes for TOEFL Report Codes?
How can students obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
How are grading decisions made by instructors at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Decision Analytics and Systems?
What are the contact details for Robert Frederking?
Who are the two instructors teaching Comprehensive Review (Analysis Paper)?
What is the course code for Advanced Digital Integrated Circuit Design?
What is the class name, day/time, location for Electronic and Computer Music in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the relationship between the Accumulation Aerosol Optical Depth (AAOD) and pollutants?
 What additional overall improvement does model 13B show compared to Jais-chat (6.7B)?
What is Anatole Gershman's academic title?
What are the dates related to a specific process mentioned in the text?
What is CMU SCS?
 Why are most indigenous languages of the Americas considered endangered?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
Who are the instructors for the 'The Ultimate Heavy Metal Class' course at A R in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Why was the implementation and hyperparameter configurations for experiments taken directly from the original GitHub repository associated with LC compression?
 Why did multihop QA show the most significant improvement according to the text?
What does LTI stand for?
What are the class times for Media Design L?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA Y?
What is the name of the project mentioned in the first line?
Who are the instructors at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the effect of idiom frequency on translations by Google in Japanese?
How long is each event lasting?
Which department in the Division of Student Affairs focuses on student leadership, involvement, and civic engagement?
What are the course codes for Service Design courses?
What is the name of the person who will be working on Costume Production for Gajic's production?
What is the contact information of Language Technologies Institute?
What are some examples of elective courses that can be chosen for the Language Technologies Concentration?
What is the academic program represented by Fatima Al-Raisi?
What are the course codes for Machine Learning in Practice courses?
Who is the instructor for course 21901?
What is the location of Sullivan, Shields' Euphonium studio?
Who did Nico, the department head, recruit to strengthen the theory aspect of research at Carnegie-Mellon?
What was the outcome of the recent NCAA Championships for Women's Swimming and Diving?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
What is the name of the course that starts at 08:30AM and ends at 09:20AM on HOA 223?
What is the name of the organization where Luthra conducted their research?
 How many times was each MO run repeated in the experiments?
How many awards did Dr. Simon win for his work in cognitive psychology and computer science?
In which year was the student handbook revised?
Where and when does the 'Social Web' course take place?
What is the degree of Ph.D. held by Krishnamurti's thesis advisor?
 What do the results show about the main component composition of Schisandra of different colors?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What is the name of the school that Lakeside School Ryan Dannegger attended?
What are the names of the two sections for Wojciechowski's class?
What is the name of Shen's class at 1:00 PM?
What percentage of paper used for general purpose printing and copying is recycled by Athletics?
What are Yiming Yang's research areas?
Where did Houlik, Steranka Y perform?
 How is the flickering rate calculated?
 What did the researchers find about the token classification models in the SIGMORPHON Shared Task?
 What is one feature of the robust-wav2vec2-large model mentioned in the text?
 What search algorithms are supported for offline attentional decoder models in ESPnet-ST-v2?
How many pages are there in total for the document?
What happens if test scores or official transcripts are not uploaded by December 13?
What are the days and times of Theater Management class?
What is the name of the Artificial Intelligence Practicum course taught by Simmons?
What are the course codes for the two Cognitive Neuroscience courses?
 Which language family has the highest average value?
 What does average cosine similarity measure in the context of a Language Model (LLM)?
Which page number is mentioned for the topic 'Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities'?
 What does the scheme of freezing the language-aware embedding layer aim to achieve?
Where does the lecture of 'Policies of Wireless Systems' take place?
When does the class 'Negotiation' take place?
 What type of benchmark is ML-SUPERB?
 What method is employed to analyze and rate LMM responses on the MMHAL-BENCH?
Is there a policy against retaliation in the university? If so, where can it be found?
 How is the WER calculated?
What are the class names and instructors for classes A1, B1, and B2?
When and where are the Scenic Design classes held?
Who is Mona Diab and what is her role in Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times for 'Introduction to Minecraft' course taught by Wang?
What are the locations of the instructors teaching M.S. Graduate Project I and Internship for Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Students?
What are the topics covered by Iyengar, Hime, Smith, Yoder, Ben, and Platz?
When is the class for Literature and Repertoire: Flute being taught?
Who is the target audience of this website?
Who teaches Acting I in PCA 318?
What are the days and times for Independent Study Chemistry held in DNM, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where and when is the 'Security in Networked Systems' course held?
 What is the evaluation framework used for in the text?
 What is the computational advantage of using Unlimiformer over pretraining large models?
When does Kasireddy's class take place?
What is the School of Computer Science policy regarding taking M.S. courses without prior approval?
What are the course codes and titles of the classes offered on MTWRF 06:30PM for Production Prep: External Projects?
 What type of aroma substance is (E)-2-hexenal in the white fruit dried fruit?
Who are the instructors for DNM at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Mar/25 at 10:00 a.m.?
In what language does Kats teach Intermediate Russian I?
Who is the instructor for Flute JB at Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
 What is the potential benefit of replacing zero paddings with other modules in the design of FEDEPTH?
 What decoding strategy is used for the MIS problem?
Where is the Parking and Transportation Services office located?
What is the location of the second instructor's workplace mentioned in this text?
What is the purpose of student advising according to the text?
Who is the instructor for Major Studio (Harp) 9.0 A and what is their location?
Who teaches the Analytical Techniques course?
What is the policy for transferring out of MCDS to another degree program?
What is the location of Berntsen V's event?
 Why is assessment of functional ability left to existing measures in UE transplant recipients?
Are GRE scores waived for students who have graduated from or are enrolled at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the subject and time of Klancher's class?
What is the main idea or purpose of this text?
What should you do if you witness or suspect misconduct at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors at the 3rd semester BXA Studio?
What is the hometown of player number [Number]?
Where is the class 'Programming Usable Interfaces: 15.0' held?
What is the course name of Independent Study in Performance 3-9 I?
What are the two courses being offered at 12:00PM - 04:00PM on HL 106C?
What is required for international students who want to have outside employment?
What is the name of the organization that funded the 'CMU Portugal Exploratory project “Signo”'?
 What type of archiectures are considered data-hungry in the text?
What are the dates and times of all classes listed in this text?
What is the course code for Physics II for Biological Sciences & Chemistry Students?
What is model checking used to verify?
What is the state space explosion?
When does the lecture 'Environmental Engineering Lab: 3.0' take place?
What are the courses under Breadth Courses: Human Language that can be counted as approved qualifying courses for SCS relevant to MIIS degree other than LTI?
What is the name of the course taught by Yilma?
 What do the authors of the text suggest is needed to enhance the robustness and efficacy of autonomous agents within the WebArena environment?
What happens at the end of 'The Kiltie Band'?
What does The WORD contain according to the given text?
Where and when does the 'Machine Learning for Business Applications' course take place?
 What is Major recall (MR) in evaluating predicted spans?
What is Kim teaching?
What is the course code for Computational Methods for Large Scale Process Design & Analysis?
 What is contextual biasing, and why is it important in E2E ASR systems?
 What is the end-to-end task success rate of GPT-4 according to the text?
Who are the instructors for the Research Skills and Professional Development course?
What are the course codes for Machine Learning for Signal Processing and Special Topics in Applied Physics: Nonlinear Optics and Photonics?
What is the time slot for Pennsylvania Kamlet 84710 Thesis Proposal Tutorial?
Who is responsible for providing assistance to individuals with disabilities at CMU?
What position does Koko Sagae play?
Where and when is the Chamber Ensemble: Brass concert taking place?
 What type of GPU was used in the experiments?
 How were the 19 human annotators asked to rate the 233 unique nouns?
 In which regions do we see a major shift of wind energy resources towards Asia driven by global carbon-neutral policies?
What are the positions of Pennsylvania Cherian and Instructor X?
What were the results of the match played on Wednesday at 7:00 am CST?
How does Carnegie Mellon University respond to reports of sexual harassment?
 What are the two most popular decoding strategies discussed in the text?
Where can students find more information about Family and Dependents Resources?
Does Carnegie Mellon University have a Doctoral program in Computational Data Science?
 What is the condition to return True in the `truncate_number` function?
 How are high-dimensional speech features typically used in speech processing models?
How can existing programs be 'tweaked' using machine-learning techniques?
 Who are the authors of the paper Denoispeech?
What is Laboratory I: Introduction to Chemical Analysis?
What is the course code for Introduction to Quantum Chemistry?
Who is teaching Stage & Production Management Thesis B?
What types of support are offered by the Communication Support program?
What are the days and times that Fang is teaching Software Engineering Management?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses mentioned in the text?
When and where does the String Methods course take place?
 What is Γ(TM) in the text?
 Why does FLARE outperform the question decomposition baseline?
What is the name of the person who taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and now teaches in Lisbon, Portugal?
What is the author's opinion on the impact of online communication on written language?
Who is the instructor for Undergraduate Research 9.0 at WEH 5409?
Who is teaching Production Prep: A Little Night Music at 5:00 PM on Wednesday?
What is the purpose of linguistic typology and universals?
How can students make appointments at the Student Health Insurance Program?
How many weeks of vacation time is typically allowed for students who work on campus?
 How did the authors address anonymity and confidentiality concerns of the participants?
What are Bitcoin transactions managed and verified by?
What are the names of the lecturers for course 9.0 Lec TR 12:30PM in Doha, Qatar?
Where does 'ETC Interdisciplinary Project II' take place, and what is its duration?
Which section is related to the police service in the university, according to the handbook?
What does the LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook provide?
What is Lei Li's academic title mentioned in this text?
Where did Allen Newell earn his degree?
What is the capacity of Gesling Stadium?
What is the location of Sleator's Competition Programming and Problem Solving course?
What does the Lemur Project develop?
What is the email address for transcript questions at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code and day/time for Operations Management offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches Maker Series: Prototyping for Equity?
What is the course code for Lighting Design I?
 What type of information is often overlooked by most word embedding methods?
What is the significance of the word 'Home' in the text?
What are the names of the two independent study courses in history?
What does the handbook describe?
 What relationship was observed between κorg and Org/BC ratios?
What is the address and contact information for the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the locations and times of all classes taught by Ramakrishnan and Singh?
What is the date of the article?
 According to the text, which types of languages may not benefit much from multilingual training?
Who can obtain Affiliate ID Cards and how to get them?
How can a student request enrollment verification from Enrollment Services at CMU?
What are the highlighted university resources for graduate students according to Appendix A.1?
What are the names of the people leading each production preparation session for Macbeth?
What is the purpose of Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
Who are the speakers at the event 'PhD Dissertation Defense'?
 How does the batch size and number of total updates in training OWSM compare to Whisper?
What is the title of the course held at DNM on Tuesday from 4:00 PM to 4:50 PM?
How does human language complexity affect the development of core NLP technology?
Who teaches the 'Advanced Real-World Data Networks' course?
 Why has there been recent interest in improving OCR for endangered languages?
What are the locations of GHC CLSTR classes?
What do all of these authors have in common?
What was the outcome of the NCAA Div. III Region 4 Diving Championships for Women's Swimming and Diving?
 What are some examples of tasks that large language models are commonly used for?
How are remaining open seats assigned in a course?
What is the role of an associate dean at CMU?
What time does Violin Studio Performance Class start?
What is mentioned in section 4.10 of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
Who are the instructors for Human-Computer Interaction 05120 and Persuasive Design?
What is the duration of each class session?
What is the location of Gruber AC and what are its abbreviations?
How does the university plan to impact society according to this text?
When and where does the Materials Science & Engineering Study Abroad take place?
Who is the instructor for IDeATe, Special Topics: Responsive Structures at Civil & Environmental Engineering?
What is the consequence if a student receives an unsatisfactory evaluation?
What impact has Satya's research had?
What is the course title and instructor for Crawford's Independent Study?
What is the new paradigm for general function obfuscation that Dr. Shafi introduced in her recent work with Tauman Kalai?
What are the names of the students listed at the end of the text?
What has become particularly important for model checking recently?
What was the time of day when the women's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and #1 CMS took place?
How can students file a report or complaint of sex discrimination?
What are the days and times for Media & Communication Design I class?
Who is Mozisek S 08:30AM 06:00PM CMU REMOTE?
 How does the proposed framework in the paper accommodate different types of imprecise label scenarios?
What are the names of the courses that start at 09:30 AM on Tuesday, Thursday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Does Carnegie Mellon University provide housing for graduate students?
What is the purpose of mentioning the Carnegie Mellon Code?
According to the author, when did his suggestion for using the smiley face take hold and spread around the world?
Where is the class 'Control of Grid-Connected Machines & Converters' held?
When and where is the LTI Colloquium held?
What does 'Archive' refer to in this context?
What is a capstone requirement?
What is the page number where you can find university policies and expectations for students?
What are the two time slots for Production Prep: Lear?
What is the purpose of the article according to the author?
What are the days and times of the W course?
 Why are the most efficient distributed training features designed for first-order gradients rather than higher-order gradients?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Monroe in Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Independent Study in Professional Writing?
What are the course codes for Senior Capstone I and II?
What is the title of the third undergraduate research project mentioned in the text?
What is the course title for B23 212?
What does DNM stand for?
 What is the significance of the results regarding the voice-face correlation presented in the paper?
What is the name of the course taught by Hinkelman?
How can a student get general information or ask general questions about The HUB at CMU?
What is the name of the project for M.S. Graduate Project - AIE Consumers mentioned in the text?
What event is happening at the same time as the lecture?
What is the course code for Reading and Writing Science?
 According to the results, how well did ChatGPT predict the direction of the empathic similarity annotation?
What kind of devices are acceptable for MS students to use in accessing university resources and completing course assignments?
What does 'WEH' stand for in the context of this text?
What is the purpose of Production Prep: External Projects Costume Design in the schedule?
What are the job titles of the two instructors mentioned in the text?
 What phenomenon is observed to be growing as hardware speed increases over time?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:00 PM on Tuesdays?
What are the instructors' names for Undergraduate Research 1-18 and Molecular Biology?
Who instructs PR 53612?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 10:00 AM?
 How can Im2Sp technology enhance daily experiences for individuals with visual impairments?
Who is the instructor for the Independent Study course held in PH A19 on Monday through Friday from TBA to TBA?
 What type of model did Saeki et al., 2022b build?
What advantage did Watson have over its human competitors during 'Jeopardy!'?
How many student-athletes were named to the College Sports Communicators (CSC) Academic All-District Teams for Division III?
 Why did the performance of the S2ST systems drop compared to S2TT systems according to the text?
 What is the purpose of utilizing an off-the-shelf ASR model in the evaluation process?
How many academic centers are mentioned in the second row of the text?
 What phenomenon does the text suggest is a fruitful direction for future work?
In which city does Bain offer Internship Two for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD Students?
Who was Carnegie Mellon playing against in their first final match?
 What are receptacles in the context of the study?
 Did GPT-3.5 achieve full task completion for any of the templates?
Where and when does Verti's Finance for Innovation Management take place?
 What was the main characteristic of severe haze pollution in the Sichuan Basin according to Yang et al.?
What are the days and times of the User-Centered Research and Evaluation classes?
 What potential benefits are suggested by combining InterCTC and tag-prepending?
In which room do Senior Project and Tepper College Honors Thesis I take place?
When and where does the 'Robot Localization and Mapping' course take place?
What is the location of Teadt AE and what are its abbreviations?
What time does Carnegie Mellon play men's tennis against Allegheny?
What is the location of Cafasso's first class?
What is the role of academic advisors in the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) program?
Who is the instructor for ooqi 70515 and where are they located?
 What are the hyperparameters used for training the oracle model?
 What is the effect of using gold context during training but no context during inference?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
What does each student study at the school?
 How many demonstrations were used from the training set in the experiment?
What are the two courses being offered by Lowry in Remediation Engineering?
What are the overall, conference and home records of the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
What is the course title of Architecture Elective?
What happens during a meeting with a member of the Dean’s Office staff?
What were the two countries that played an important role in her research?
What is the location where one can find recreational hours of operation for Wiegand Gymnasium?
What is the name of the class being taught by Thomson in room PCA 103?
What are the dates and times of the External Projects classes that focus on Sound?
What is the time slot for Production Prep: Put Your House in Order for Lighting Production?
 What is the plan for future work regarding the surveying of values, rights, and duties?
How many independent study projects are listed in this text?
Who was responsible for developing Hitech, the first computer to achieve grandmaster status in chess?
What is the course code for 'Pennsylvania Fields-Black'?
How does the author suggest addressing these issues?
What is the course code for Multitrack Recording at CFA A6, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How many classes are listed in this schedule?
What is the course code, title, days of the week, time offered, and instructor for Computational Methods for Large Scale Process Design & Analysis?
How can students obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the topic of the Composers Forum?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
When was the School of Computer Science established as a standalone college within CMU?
When does Sokalski teach his Masters Project E TBA class?
 What is the evaluation metric used for the model trained with size 8x8, 128, 128, learning rate 0.1, and 10k training steps?
What is the name of the program that Pukinskis UB teaches at?
What are the names of all courses and their respective locations mentioned in the given text?
What happens if a student fails to meet all the specified conditions mentioned in an N-1 letter?
Where is the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Lighting' held?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Financial Aid Guide on the Carnegie Mellon University website?
When and where does the 'Transition Design' class take place?
What is the purpose of the hotline mentioned in the text?
What is the main goal of Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name that starts with 'Statistics for Decision Making'?
What are the class times and location of '54798 Expanded Theater 6.0 A TR'?
What is the course name for class that starts at 01:00PM on Monday in DH A302?
What is the name of the seminar that starts on Friday at 10:30 AM in room TBA?
What time do the classes of Harding, Premo, and Williams start?
What was Berliner's achievement at Henry D. Cooke Elementary School?
What is the name and time of Morehshin's Advanced ETB: Decolonizing Data Beyond Metaphor class?
When does the class 'Introduction to Electronic Music' start?
What are the names and meeting times for classes in Wright C2?
 In the RNA model, how is the RNA posterior probability, P (C|X), defined?
How many health-related offices are mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course taught by Bisk and Strubell?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C110 from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM on Monday?
 How are users automatically logged into their accounts?
What are the names of the people involved in Shields, Guild, and Van Hoesen's literature and repertoire event?
What is the name of the course that teaches 'Behavioral Economics in Public Policy'?
Who are the two people who will be teaching Production Prep: Penelope: Lighting Production?
 How is the unrolled expression obtained from Equation (4) represented?
What is the annual percentage of SIGGRAPH papers that Microsoft Research has accepted since 2002?
What does 'SCS25' stand for?
When must a reimbursement request for pre-approved conference or workshop travel expenses be filed?
Who are the authors of the article 'Research in Psychology' conducted by Plaut and Rakison?
What happens to the grades of courses taken through cross-registration program?
 What is the TLG transducer used in classical approaches to ASR?
What is the course code for Engineering the Materials of the Future?
What is the course title for Cardenes' class?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What were the Tartans' scores when they defeated Wooster and Otterbein?
 What does hyperparameter sensitivity refer to?
 What is the main focus of the paper mentioned in the text?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
What are the names of all instructors mentioned in this text?
 How many sentences formed intr-agent sentences?
What is the course title of Kupfer's class?
What is the name of the class taught by Wang L on TR at 2:00 PM?
What are some topics covered by the SMART program?
What is the course code of the course taught by Professor Shimada and Hertz?
What are the Lemur Project's main focuses?
What is the name of the course taught by Yang in Lisbon, Portugal?
What are the class names for Richards?
 What is the function of the ViT-VQGAN in the system?
What is the purpose of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course taught by Carlock B?
What are the days and times for the class 'Movement and Dance III'?
What communities will students in the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems program belong to?
Who are the performers in the Major Studio (Harp) class?
 What approach does the paper propose for improving the performance of the Im2Sp model?
 Which model shows the highest combined score (BLEU, ROUGE, BERTScore, and METEOR) for idiomatic sentence translations?
How can a student satisfy the writing proficiency requirement?
 What relationship was observed between the fraction of nitrate and PM2.5 concentrations under polluted conditions?
What is the URL for the Student Academic Success Center?
 What is the significance of using AE and quantization algorithms for compression?
Who teaches Categorical Logic?
 Which toolkits provide a vectorized beam search interface for sequence to sequence tasks?
What are the locations where Iyengar, Hime, Smith, Yoder, Ben, and Platz teach their courses?
What is the location of Elective Studio (Alexander Technique I) and Elective Studio (Jazz Improv)?
What does the text mention about sharing options?
What is the course title for Belanger's research methods class?
How are tartans and plaids different in terms of their construction?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in Medical Management?
What are the days and times when Intermediate French I Online is offered?
 What level of performance did the MiniLM models achieve?
 How many GPUs are used to train all models?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study 1-24 A and Independent Study 1-12 A?
 In the context of the effect of audio prompts on synthesis, how does the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) change as the standard deviation (σ) increases?
What are the names of the instructors who teach on Monday and Wednesday at 11:00AM-11:50AM in POS 146 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where was the Kenyon Invitational held?
Where was the Muskie Meet #3 held?
In which room does Course 153 take place?
 What metric is used to assess the transcription quality of the ASR component?
What is the academic calendar for Master’s degree completion?
What is the course title of the Information Systems Research Colloquium held in Doha, Qatar?
What are the days and times of Strom's classes in this schedule?
What is the name of the class for learning about costume design?
What are the types of research initiatives undertaken by this institution?
What is the significance of the word 'Home' in the text?
What is the significance of ACL annual meeting for researchers working in computational linguistics and natural language processing?
Who teaches Graduate Reading and Research in Computer Science?
What are the days and times of Essential Skills for Leaders course offered by Montalvo?
When is Neural Engineering Laboratory held and where is it located?
 What configuration was used for the ImageNet-1k data pruning experiment?
What is TOEFL ITP Plus for China?
Who led the project at CMU?
Who teaches Special Topics in French & Francophone Studies 3-12?
What is the name of the course that starts at 07:00PM and is taught by Abel, Yallapragada, Naidu in room WEH 5316?
Where is The Help Center located?
 What is the framework of Prompt2Model based on?
What is the location of Instructor TBA's class in PH A22 on E at 11:00AM - 11:50AM?
What are the common MCDS core courses?
What is the role of the dean's written approval regarding student leaves?
What time does Hubbard, Rubin, Washko, and Barrois's independent study start?
What is the purpose of the policy on Master's student statute of limitations?
What is the title of the sixth undergraduate research project mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course for VMD L's Production Prep?
 What does the use of HER (Hindsight Experience Replay) alleviate in the exploration process?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
What are the names of the authors listed in alphabetical order?
Where can one find the Carnegie Mellon Code online?
What are the policies regarding courses with restricted enrollment in LTI Academic Polices?
What are the days and times of Baisley's HCI Pro Seminar 6.0?
What did Michael Loren 'Fuzzy' Mauldin sell his product to?
Who are the instructors for the classes that start between 9:00 AM and 10:30 AM?
Who composed Chamber Music: String Quartet 3.0 A?
What facilities are housed on the second floor of the new expansion of the Cohon Center?
What is the role of Language Support in evaluating and certifying English fluency for teaching assistants?
What are the names and locations of all classes offered by Arscott B?
What were some other areas where Reddy experimented with graphics printing?
What are the days and times of Jazz Instrumental Ensemble?
 What is the compression method used by LightHuBERT?
What is the course code for Algorithm Design and Analysis?
When and where are sections 21703, 21785, and 21765 held?
What are the course credits of Masters EST&P Project VAR?
What is the name of the office that handles academic support for students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the class timings for the 'Costume Crafts: Theatrical Armor' course?
 What is the name of the automated low-rank factorized training method introduced in the paper?
Who should Ph.D. students plan their internships in consultation with at Carnegie Mellon University's LTI?
What is the name of Khokher's class?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
What is the purpose of the Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students?
What is the protocol for responding to alleged violations of academic integrity at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How many utterances are randomly sampled to generate syntheses for Speaker Similarity Score evaluation?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the given schedule?
 Based on the given context, would B.A and M.D. likely link to the same article on Wikipedia?
 What does Figure 2 show about the architecture of DPHuBERT?
 What metric is used in ASQA to evaluate the final answer?
What is the name of the instructor for Policy Analysis Senior Project course?
 What is recommended for HRQOL assessment for UE transplant population in the text?
Where is Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania located?
How many courses are mentioned in this text?
Who teaches Japanese Film and Literature: The Art of Storytelling?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
When and where is the 'Tap III - Expand Percussive Rhythms' class held?
What is the role of the Division of Student Affairs in supporting graduate students?
Where is Zetlin-Jones F held?
What resources does the university offer for research and learning purposes?
 What is the title of the personal communication by Zhiqing Sun, Yikang Shen, Qinhong Zhou, Hongxin Zhang, Zhenfang Chen, David Cox, Yiming Yang, and Chuang Gan in 2023?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the schedule?
 What did the first fully unsupervised neural machine translation (UNMT) model adopt?
Who is teaching the Stage Management class for Production Prep of Macbeth and when are they scheduled?
What are the days and times of Cycling Core?
What are the main categories of programs offered by the university's School of Computer Science?
What is the name of the course that covers Visual Learning and Recognition?
When is the Ph.D. Qualifying Examination due?
 What approach is used to efficiently generate prompts for the decoder in the proposed model?
 What limitation of HuBERT do the authors propose to address in the text?
What is the name of the author listed in line 7?
Who are the instructors teaching at what time and location?
Who teaches Design for Digital Systems, a 12.0 credit course held on TR at 8:30 AM in room MM 215?
What is the price for children attending a CMU football game?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Introduction to Glowstringing/Poi'?
What is the course code for Entrepreneurship for Computer Science?
Who is responsible for scenic design in the production of Lonely Planet?
In which room and at what time does section 51702 take place?
What is the duration of the MLT program?
 How did the authors try to improve code generation in the text?
 How many languages and tasks are currently supported by GlobalBench?
 What is the value of NLLB for 0-shot?
What is the significance of mentioning the MLT Graduate Student Handbook on page 37?
When and where will Self-Paced Computational Ethics Lab be held?
What is Enrollment Services and what does it do?
What is the course title of lecture 12.0 at 4:00 PM on Monday?
Where does Lei Li work?
Where are Kramkov's classes held in New York, NY?
Who has priority in enrolling to program core courses among MCDS students and other departments' accepted students?
What language tutoring software was developed by a CMU spinoff?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Internship in Psychology?
Where does the 'Introduction to Quantum Chemistry' class take place?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
 What is the ultimate goal of Forward-Looking Active REtrieval augmented generation (FLARE)?
What are the days and times when 'Rehearsal and Performance IV: Put Your House in Order' is scheduled?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor Amvrosiadis and Ganger?
What event did Athletics host at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How does the effective length of the crack tip change when the crack propagation length is about to reach the corrosion pit?
 What type of models were used in the fine-tuning approaches to detect human-written and ChatGPT-generated text?
What are the course codes for GHC 5232 and MI 448?
 What are the phenotypic effects on speech reported for FOXP1?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Stagecraft: Sound (2 units) on Tuesday and Friday?
 What does reference [11] discuss in relation to speech recognition?
Who is the instructor for Organizational Management: Power & Influence course?
What is the title of the course offered on Thursday from 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM?
What is the purpose of this section?
What are the names of the instructors for Maker Series: Intro to Laser Cutting & Engraving?
 What benchmark datasets are used to evaluate the scaling efficiency of SAMA in text classification?
 What is the correlation coefficient for the temporal variation in dust column concentration over the dust emission resource regions according to the text?
Who should students register with to receive support during Short-Term Maternity Accommodation or Formal Leave of Absence?
What is the title of the course being taught by Coulson?
 What is the primary purpose of the feed-forward neural network (FNN) LM?
 What is the total number of tokens for English datasets other than The Pile?
What is the contact information for the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the consequences if a student takes an outside course that does not meet the minimum grade requirement?
Who is this passage directed towards?
What is the topic of Ficca C's presentation?
What was the result for the 'B' Team during the Guy & Jeanne Kuhn Invitational held at The Country Club of Meadville in Pennsylvania?
What is Jason Li's title and contact information?
At which university did Edmund M. Clarke receive his Ph.D. degree?
 Which conference did the paper on audio retrieval with WavText5K and CLAP Training appear in?
 How is the input data for the text denormalizer (TDN) constructed?
What are the course codes for GHC 5224 and SH 234?
Where can you find more information about Eric P. Xing?
What are the days and times when course 11634 is offered?
What should students do if they want to receive the maximum amount of federal financial aid?
Are students enrolled automatically into the LTI Orientation Canvas course?
What is the name of Compeau's course at POS 152?
What is the location of the third event in the schedule?
 How does the text suggest improving patient prognosis?
Who were the co-founders of Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What are the names of the instructors for A R, B R, C R, D R, E R and F R classes and their respective class timings?
What is the name of the individual listed under the department 'Aylmer AB'?
What are the class times and locations for Morack F4?
What is the name of the internship that takes place at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for M.F.A. Studio?
What are the names of the courses offered by Prendergast?
How many players from Carnegie Mellon were placed on the All-ECAC Team?
What are the course codes for 'Intermediate Chinese I', 'Intermediate Spanish I', and 'Third Cinema: People, Language, and Culture in Documentary Storytelling' respectively?
Who are the instructors at TBA 57990 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the magazine published by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science for news and events updates?
What are the three main goals that the university aims to achieve?
 Is the content limited to specific topics?
 What is the main finding regarding the use of lexiprecision in addressing the limitations of reciprocal rank?
 How is the PAAP Loss used in the network?
 What is a technique commonly used in previous literature for joint training of multilingual ASR and LID models?
Who are the instructors for the course 'Browser Security'?
What resources does Carnegie Mellon University provide to help students understand academic integrity?
What is Shaw's opinion about people's ability to manage their personal computers?
When does Kesden's Introduction to Computer Systems class take place?
When does Frollini B teach his/her course?
What is the purpose of the University Center at Carnegie Mellon?
 What is the CP decomposition and how is it different from the Tucker decomposition?
What is the name of the course that focuses on local advocacy for global change?
 What is the name of the framework proposed in the text?
 What is still lacking in terms of a comprehensive study in feedback methods?
What is the maximum amount of travel funding available for students who have no project funding?
Where is the search form located on this website?
 How do most LMs calculate representations of contexts?
What are the days and times of the Dramaturgy B course?
What are the course codes for the two Crosscultural Psychology courses?
 What is the title of reference 65 in the text?
 What were the key observations when comparing HuBERT-MR-P and HuBERT-MR-H with base HuBERT models?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the names and locations of the classes mentioned in the text?
 What is the main focus of the COMET model as mentioned in the text?
What are the examination regulations, assessment and grading for this program?
Who are the instructors for each elective studio?
In which room is Computer Vision: 12.0 held?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
What is the course code for Choudhary's class in Differential Equations?
What is the name of the program described in this handbook?
Where is CMU's Career and Professional Development Center (CDPC) located?
What is the significance of the birth of a child in relation to this text?
What are the functions of the Jared L. Cohon University Center?
How can a student's employment eligibility be verified at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the location of Rousseau in the text?
What services does the Information Desk sell?
What is the title of the course taught by Garlan Kang at 12:30 PM on Fridays?
 What technique is used during training where the ground truth history is used as a label context?
What is the policy regarding consensual intimate relationships between undergraduate students according to the text?
What does the LTI cover?
What kind of care does University Health Services provide for gynecological issues?
Where do I mail my transcripts and how many should I send?
Where does Qualitative Perspectives on Context, Instruction and Learning take place?
Where was the Women's Tennis match held on Thu, Mar/09?
What is the Capstone project in HCDS?
Where can students find information about the campus eateries at the University Center?
When does Directed Study: 2-12 take place?
In which building does Frey teach his Shift Capstone Experience class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches Autonomous Control Systems at CMU REMOTE in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is highlighted about the behavior of transformer-based speech models in Figure 13?
What was the significance of BKG in backgammon?
What are the names of the students who have Independent Study in Information Systems with Heimann?
 What guides the decision to adopt Lt obj(p) as the default form of contrastive loss in Eqn. 7 according to Section B.3?
Who will help determine resources and procedures appropriate for each student during this meeting?
Who are the individuals who supervised Sylvania Mitchell's Graduate Reading and Research?
Where can you find information about assistance for individuals with disabilities in this handbook?
What are the time slots for Lighting Design in Production Prep: Love and Money?
What is the first name of the author who instructs at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Data, Inference, and Applied Machine Learning?
What policy addresses romantic, sexual or amorous relationships/interactions with undergraduate students?
What is the location of HH C110?
What is the location of each course offered in this schedule?
When does the application period for Fall 2024 open?
When does 'Bioorganic Chemistry: Peptides, Proteins and Combinatorial Chemistry' end in the schedule?
When does Production Prep: Penelope start and end for the Costume Design section?
Who is Kim and what course does he/she take?
What are the course codes for Stagecraft and Production Prep: Put Your House in Order?
Who teaches Movement I and Design Collaboration Project?
What is the course code for Oral Communication?
What was the final score of the game between Chicago and Carnegie Mellon on Sun, Feb/04?
What is the location of the 'Studio: Creative Coding' course?
What does the author believe will happen if students do not respect these principles?
What is the course code for Applied Distributed Systems?
Are pass/fail or audit grades allowed for courses used towards a student's degree?
What are the time and location of Topics in Film and Media: The American War Film course?
 What conclusion was reached about the relevance of SSL model layers in the text?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Wednesday at Rohrbach Hall?
 What is the accuracy (%) for the CUTTLEFISH+FD model with VGG-19 Params.?
Is the GRE at Home Test accepted?
What is the topic of X2?
What did Reddy do at CMU after joining the university in 1969?
Why does Reddy use persuasion techniques?
What is the name of the institution that offers Model Theory I course?
In which page number is the information about health insurance located?
 What service was used to translate the data back and forth in the training set?
Who teaches Rhetoric, Science, and the Public in room 4707 at Wean Hall?
Where is the Deconstructing the Barbie Cinematic Universe course held?
What protocol does Carnegie Mellon University have for responding to alleged violations of academic integrity?
What services does the Career & Professional Development Center provide to help MIIS students prepare for internships?
How many innings did the softball game between Emory and Carnegie Mellon on Fri, Apr/21 last?
 What is the batch size used for sentence selection?
What was the location of the championship in terms of its conference affiliation?
What is the location of Eco-drama?
How does Carnegie Mellon University support students seeking internships?
Where does Directed Study: 2-12 take place?
What is the name of the office that handles research integrity and compliance at CMU?
What are the locations and instructors of all classes?
What did Nico Habermann do at Carnegie-Mellon?
Who did Emory play against on Sun, Feb/18?
 What is the final expression obtained after applying the same technique to eta times the partial derivative of alpha double dotted xi l and simplifying?
Where were the matches played?
Which classes are taught by Mr. Burns and what do they focus on?
Where was the Roanoke Invitation Challenge held?
What is the name of the course listed on Tuesday from 04:30PM to 05:20PM in PCA 313?
What is the course code for Introduction to Electronic Music?
What is the purpose of the Student Health Insurance Plan according to the MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
Is it mandatory for students to have teaching experience?
What are the names and their respective instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday at 02:00PM in BH 235A, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Is there an orientation course called 'The Immigration Course' or 'The IC' for PhD students at LTI? If yes, what is it about?
In which semester are students required to take 'Sophomore Research Project (3-12)' and 'Junior Research Project (3-36)?', respectively?
What are the course codes and titles of the classes that start at 2:00 PM on Mondays in Gates Hillman Center?
What are the course codes and titles of the classes offered on MTWRF 06:30PM for Production Prep: External Projects Scenic Design?
Can I submit my application even if I haven't received all of my letters of recommendation?
What is the number of the player who is a junior and plays as a forward?
In which room does Sustainable Design Synthesis take place?
 Which layers are pruned the most for the CNN in DPHuBERT?
What are the days and times for Advanced Algorithms: Theory?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Conducting 3-9 A?
What is a swimming and diving roster typically used for?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Arithmetic Statistics, Stochastic Calculus, and Reading and Research?
When is Communication Design Studio held?
Where are these courses held?
How can a student enroll in the next semester if they have outstanding balances from previous semesters?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on R from 8:15 PM to 9:30 PM in TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does Makonnen 76456 take place?
Who is the instructor for Software Engineering Methods and what classroom does it meet in?
Where does the 'Hostile Environments' class take place?
In which room do Senior Project and Tepper College Honors Thesis II take place?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the address of the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is Jaimin Fee?
What are the names of the authors who conducted a study abroad program in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for New Pedagogies?
What is the CMU Student Insurance Plan?
What office handles international education matters in the university?
 What percentage of participants often or always lacked resources to reproduce previous experiments?
 What is the value on the y-axis in Figure 14?
What is the purpose of the Office of Disability Resources?
 When is the extinction coefficient highest in the range 1-2 km above ground level in Beijing?
Which campus resources and opportunities are mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course that teaches about 'Love and Money' Production Management from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday?
What is the title of the course being offered at HBH 1006 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors for Newman Lec 2 and their respective class timings?
 What are some of the most representative language models mentioned in the text?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What is the course code for Queer Representations in Contemporary Literature and Culture from Japan taught by Instructor TBA?
What are the days and times of the courses offered in this schedule?
How many credits does The Key to Beethoven course have according to the text?
 What is the purpose of the Jais-chat 13B model?
What are the days and times for the 'Idée Portal: Introduction to Physical Computing' course?
What is the course title and instructor for CFA 211 at 9:00 AM on Tuesdays?
What is the location of the event listed as G TBA TBA?
 How many submissions were there for the shared tasks?
What is the main idea behind the text?
What is the course code and instructor for Independent Study in International Management offered at Doha, Qatar?
What are the names of the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of Senior Composition Project 1.0?
 What can improper tuning of factorization ranks in low-rank models lead to?
When is 'Understanding Textiles 3.0' class held?
Where can LTI PhD students find photocopiers and printers?
Who teaches the Capstone Project VAR A TBA TBA?
What was the name of the newly created department where the Department of Computer Science moved into after Carnegie Institute of Technology merged with Mellon Institute of Industrial Research?
 What is the key difference in the front-end module in CHiME-7 DASR compared with the CHiME-6 challenge?
Where can one find Frequently Asked Questions about CMUCTAT?
What is the name of the course being offered by Dr. Thiessen?
What are the policies that not explicitly described in this document conform to?
When does Welding take place?
What are the days, times, and location for the course 'Internship'?
What is the name of the institution where these courses will be held?
What are the names of the courses that focus on Network Defenses?
 In exact-match systems, what is the value of M(qi, dj)?
When is Software Structures for User Interfaces class held?
 Which Big Idea in AI is addressed by the AI for K-12 initiative in the StoryQ module?
Where does the course 'They Came as Romans: Roman Civilization 360' take place?
What is the title of the course listed as 36998 in the text?
What is the name of the course offered in Production Prep: Grown Ups Scenic Design?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM in room MI 348?
What are the class timings for Statistical Graphics and Visualization?
What is the duration of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Carley's independent study?
What are the names of the professors teaching Introduction to Mathematical Finance and Operations Research I?
Who teaches the course at time slot D TBA?
What are the course names for each course?
What is the name of the course that teaches Advanced Deep Learning?
Does the MCDS program allow students to work while studying?
How many acting courses are mentioned in this text?
When and where is Tsui, Owad's course held?
What is the name of the university where the research was conducted?
Where are the Summer Practicum for Drama Students and Graduate Reading & Research courses held?
Who was the first department head of Carnegie Tech's Computer Science Department?
What is the course title and instructor for the Guided Reading: The Environment and Climate Change?
Where is the university located?
Who is teaching the class 'Want to be a Mother: Sound K'?
What is the course code for Physical Chemistry (Thermo): Macroscopic Principles of Physical Chemistry Lec MWF 11:00AM 11:50AM?
What resources are available on campus for spouses, domestic partners, and families of graduate students?
When and where is User-Centered Research and Evaluation class taught by Musuraca and Shen?
 What are the three components that each task in Dynamic-SUPERB is composed of?
Which option is not a way to share content?
Who teaches Music Studio 3-9 class in periods D and G?
What is the course title and credit hours of the course starting at 11:00 AM on Tuesday, taught by Professor Rafson?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What is the main purpose of Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What areas of campus are available for parking, and how is it managed?
 Why is a big monolingual dataset essential for approaches like unsupervised machine translation (UMT)?
 Where was the first paper presented?
Where is the SCS Distinguished Lecture: Aditya Agarwal, Vice President of Engineering, Dropbox held?
What is the course code for Bioorganic Chemistry: Nucleic Acids and Carbohydrates?
When does the Stage Management class take place?
What are the class times and locations for Molecular Biology and Cancer Biology?
What is the name of the institution that offers courses in Independent Study in Studio Recording Project 3-9 A, Independent Study in Music Education 3-9 A, and Independent Study in Music Entrepreneurship 3-9 A?
 What role does the computation of MACs play in the method?
What is the target duration of study for an LTI PhD student at CMU?
What is the protocol for responding to alleged violations of academic integrity at the university?
Who is one of the instructors for Rusinek, Shields' Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual) location?
When and where does the course 'Hardware Arithmetic for Machine Learning' take place?
Who are the teachers listed in this text?
When and where does the Sophomore Research Project take place?
When was Gesling Stadium built?
What does the section on grading and evaluation cover?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
 What does the Keyphrase Clustering approach achieve in the comparison?
 Which datasets were used for evaluation in the study?
What should students do if they have been impacted by any of the issues mentioned in this text?
What is the course name for Kim 47950?
What are the days and times for Black American Music Seminar?
What are the names of the students listed under 'G' and 'H'?
 What is the purpose of using subword tokenization in the base LM mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the students who have Independent Study in Information Systems with Heimann on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 2:30 PM to 4:15 PM?
What type of study is Independent Study in History 3-9 A?
What kind of partnerships does the university aim to establish outside its traditional borders?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's stance on academic integrity?
What is the location of the seminar that starts at 12:30PM on Thursdays?
What is included in general medical care provided by University Health Services?
What is the deadline for applying to graduate programs at this institution?
What kind of dining options are available for students at Carnegie Mellon?
Can reservation times extend into the next full reservation hour at Carnegie Mellon's tennis courts?
Who teaches the Entrepreneurial Engineering Project course?
Who are the teachers for Theater Architecture I and II?
 What number is missing in the sequence: 14.6, 32.2, 2.3, 4.3, 29.6, 31.9, ...?
How many posts are there in total on this page?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses listed in the schedule?
How does Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science remain committed to the vision outlined by Perlis, Simon and Newell?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered at 10:50AM in room PH 125C?
What can you find on the Contact Us page of Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the course that offers a reading and research project on 'Project Research'?
What is the course code for 'Engineering & Public Policy 19051 Study Abroad'?
What was the mascot of Carnegie Mellon before it partnered with SME Branding?
What are the requirements for publicly announcing thesis defense?
Who is the last author mentioned in the text?
What is the difference between transfer credit and course exemption?
Under which section does 'Parking and Transportation' fall under in this text?
What is the time slot for the lecture taught by Singh, Haidar (course code: 24104)?
Does Carnegie Mellon University offer housing to graduate students?
What is the date of the women's golf match between Carnegie Mellon and The Stith Invitational?
What are the course codes for Bioorganic Chemistry and Environmental Chemistry?
What is the course code for M.S. Thesis Research?
What are the days and times of the classes for Instructor W?
What is the first date on the Carnegie Mellon Athletics Schedule?
What are emic actions?
 What is the probabilistic view that motivates an alternative formulation of federated learning?
Where is the Athletics Office located at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the requirement for federal financial aid eligibility?
 What are some limitations mentioned in the text regarding the sample pool of participants?
What are the days and times of Introduction to Cyber Intelligence?
Who are the authors of the courses listed at the end of the text?
 What is the role of phonological features, particularly articulatory features, in phonology according to the text?
What are the days of the week when each course is held?
Who teaches Production Practicum at PCA 107 on MTWRF from 06:30PM-10:30PM?
What is the course name and credit hours for each class listed in the schedule?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in Production Prep for Macbeth?
Where is the Introduction to GO course held?
 What were some methods proposed to train an unsupervised text-to-speech (UTTS) system?
Who are the instructors who teach GA and GB in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is strongly encouraged in the use of the Jais-chat 13B model?
What are the names of the people listed under each letter?
What is the course name of Innovation Mindset in Practice A?
What are the names of the people listed after 'Linstedt' and their respective titles or positions?
What are the course codes for Collaborative Piano II, III, IV, and V?
 What is the intuition behind FLAREinstruct in active retrieval augmented generation?
 What architecture is used for the evaluative listener in automatic evaluations of informativeness?
What are the days and times of Logan B.'s Dance II: Pillars to Build Dance Technique class?
What is the mission of the Office of Disability Resources?
What happens if a student is exempt from a required course due to prior courses or experience?
What is the name of the course being offered?
What are the course codes and names for each of the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the NCAA process for participation of transgender students according to Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the time slots for 'Formulation Engineering (12.0)' taught by Tilton?
What is the name of the instructor for the course on Wednesdays from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What are the days and times for Cardiovascular Mechanics?
Where is the How Music Works: An Affective History class held?
 What is one of the authors listed for Reference [16]?
 What is the main task of using an ASR system in the context of this text?
What is the purpose of Engineers Without Borders?
What are the consequences if a student fails to improve their grades after academic probation?
What does a good letter from the faculty indicate?
 What do the authors believe their paper provides strong evidence for?
Who teaches the course starting at TBA on DNM days in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Sullivan B?
 Why is there concern about using Kendall’s τ with respect to ties?
 What type of models are compared in the study?
What is the name of the course that Laird is taking at 09050 in the schedule?
 What is the CASR Metric used for in the assessment of robotic agents?
Who are the teachers teaching at 12:00 PM - 12:50 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
 What is the STFT window size used for the multi-resolution L1 loss?
What is the course code for Topics in Japanese Studies: 9.0?
How can you contact Language Technologies Institute?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered by Youssfi and Nace at POS A35?
What is the name of the scenic design class for Lorca?
 How does the proposed method aim to reduce the heavy reliance of self-training methods on photometric cues for predicting pixel-wise semantic labels?
 What was the main observation regarding the ASR model after fine-tuning for speech separation?
 What method is applied to obtain bias-corrected datasets in historical and projected simulations?
Who did Dr. Clarke collaborate with to first propose the use of Model Checking as a verification technique for finite state concurrent systems?
 What is the goal of the survey discussed in the text?
 What did the droplets experience after passing through the sampling line and being dried?
 How many times is the procedure of profile construction and similarity prediction repeated to average out randomness in the ACL algorithm?
What are the days and times of Dance/Light: Lighting?
What are the names of the courses starting at TEP 2118?
What are the names of the courses taught by Hertz in the given text?
What are the dates of the UAA Championship for Men's and Women's Tennis?
 What does PCA stand for in the context of data analysis?
What is the total budget of the department mentioned in the text?
 What type of decoder is used in the synthesizer of the S2ST model?
What challenges do these minorities face according to the author?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching the Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence for Engineers course?
What are the two key offices for health, wellness, and safety at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who teaches Supervised Solfege at Curtis Institute of Music?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered at HBH on Monday, Wednesday (MW), 09:30AM - 10:50AM?
What are the days and times of the class that teaches Media for Production Prep: Macbeth?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday in room DH 234?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 03:30PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and lasts for 12.0 credit hours?
What is the purpose of A.1.5 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are some advantages of using print to share information?
When and where are Advanced Topics in Analysis and Advanced Topics in Financial Mathematics held?
What are the two courses offered by Zamborsky in PCA A35?
What are the days and times for Physics 33100 Lecture 2?
What is the purpose of reporting information systems related issues at this institution?
 What is the average Conformer CER reduction compared to prior work for the CJK language group?
What is the course name and subject of 57506 Major Studio (Viola) 9.0 A?
How much additional funding was increased by the department to diversify their sources of income?
What are the names of the instructors for Reasoning with Data course?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor C in Keyboard Studies?
Where and when does Japanese Film and Literature: The Art of Storytelling take place?
When does Freeman B's class take place?
 Which task showed the lowest weight contribution for 100ms HuBERT?
 How does the TV background noise pose a challenge in the far-field audio system?
How many students are listed in the table?
Who teaches Reading and Research 1-48?
Is health insurance provided by the university for students?
What is the expectation for students supported by research projects during winter and summer breaks?
What does the description of a Scottish terrier's physical aspect represent?
Who are the teachers teaching at 1:00 PM - 1:50 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
Is the GRE required?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:30PM on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays?
Where and when does the 'International Relations' class take place?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Design Theory & Practice' on Wednesday at 11:50 AM in room A11?
What are the production preparation sessions for Lighting Design?
Who are the instructors for Performance 3-9 A?
In which room is Introduction to Feedback Control Systems held?
What is the name of the magazine published by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science for news and events updates?
What is the name of the instructor teaching 'Augmented and Virtual Reality' course?
What happens if an MCDS student receives an Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) deemed an infraction by the MCDS committee?
What are the dates and times of the Intimate Relationships & Sexual Health course?
Where and when does the D W lecture of 'Sign and Development' take place?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
How long does it take for MIIS-16 students enrolled in full-time study to complete their degree?
What are the days and times of the week when Big Data and Large-scale Computing is offered?
What is the name of the course being taught by Aoun in Doha, Qatar?
What are the days and times when 'Foundations of Drama II' is offered?
When does Habib have a class with Kaestner and Le Goues?
 What is the focus of the BigCode community in developing and releasing StarCoder and StarCoderBase models?
 What algorithm is required for the efficient computation of the training criterion and its gradient in E2E models?
 How many blocks does the transformer decoder have?
Does a course used to satisfy a breadth requirement can also satisfy qualifying course requirements?
What are the days and times of the class 'Human AI Interaction'?
Is it possible to work on a master’s degree part time?
What is the role of the coordination team according to this text?
What is Athletics' commitment to?
What is the course code for AI Innovation?
What is the name of the course taught by Vadlamudi?
What is Justine Cassell's current status at Language Technologies Institute?
Name an organization that focuses on advancing Hispanic students in STEM fields.
What is the name of the event on March 16th at Penn State University?
What is the name of each project?
 What score did the model achieve on the Clotho evaluation split?
How many credits is the second course listed worth?
Where else does this person work as a professor?
What are the names of the instructors listed in the text?
What is the course code and title of the course offered on Thursday at 11:00 AM?
What are the application deadlines for Fall 2021 first-year class at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Bioorganic Chemistry: Nucleic Acids and Carbohydrates?
 How many rules are used for symbolic reasoning during testing?
 What is the denoising back-translation loss formula?
What is End of Semester Evaluation?
Who were the performers at the recital?
 What does the Representation Dimension d determine in the HILL framework?
 What is the purpose of annotating segments in the text?
 How does the ablated model that removes the retrieval loss perform compared to the original model on VIST?
Who teaches Musical Theatre on Stage and Screen?
What are the names of the instructors for Robotics Systems Engineering (course code: 16450)?
 What are some of the benefits of using SELF-REFINE according to the text?
Who are the instructors for all sections of Introduction to Machine Learning for Engineers?
Where is the Gates Hillman Complex located on Carnegie Mellon’s Pittsburgh campus?
What are the days and times for Physics 33104 Experimental Physics Lecture 2?
Who does the staff at ORIC work with?
Where does the 'Architectural Lighting Design' course take place, and what is its duration?
What is the role of each instructor listed in the text?
What is unique about each department and degree program at CMU?
On which page does this information appear?
Who is the Director of Athletics Communications at Carnegie Mellon University?
How did Rashid approach problem-solving differently from other scientists?
What does 'Fun Fact' indicate in this context?
 According to the text, what does low probability/confidence often indicate for large LMs?
What is tied to making normal progress toward completing degree requirements for F-1 and J-1 students?
Can a student take a course outside of the School of Computer Science for their MCDS degree?
What is the duration of the course 'Scholarship for Service Seminar'?
Who are the instructors for Natural Language Processing: 12.0 A TR 02:00PM 03:20PM?
What is the course taught by Peteanu in Doha, Qatar?
 Which product overestimates dust column concentration in the SUS region throughout the year?
Which player is from Houston, Texas?
What are the names of the courses starting with 'Technical Direction II', 'Graduate Concept Studio', and 'Captured Storytelling'?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Production Prep for Costume Design on G days?
 Which models perform the best for ASR and ASV tasks according to the study?
What resources and information can be found on the website provided in the text?
What is the course name for HBH 1007 offered on Monday and Wednesday from 2:00 PM to 3:50 PM?
What are the two main sections in Chapter 4?
Who teaches Requirements for Information Systems?
Who are the instructors at the Mathematics Colloquium?
What does Red Whittaker do at CMU?
What are the names of the courses taught by Bockstaller in this schedule?
What are the days and times for each class in this schedule?
 What is the arXiv preprint number for the Xls-r self-supervised cross-lingual speech representation learning at scale?
 What is the proposed method discussed in the text?
What are the class names and their respective days/times in the given schedule?
What is the role of Carnegie Mellon University's Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) in providing personalized attention to students, alumni, and employers?
 What ethical considerations are mentioned in the text regarding the generation of counterstatements?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in PTC MPR on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
 What were some common reasons why participants empathized with the retrieved stories?
What is the name of the elective studio that Chiu teaches at Elective Studio 3-9 A TBA TBA?
What is the title of the course being held at CMU REMOTE from 09:00AM to 09:50AM on Wednesday?
 What did the ablation study on 2WikiMultihopQA and ASQA-hint compare?
How many courses are listed in the text?
What is the subject of Bizon's class?
What happens if a student takes an undergraduate course pass/fail?
What is the course code for Gormley's Introduction to Machine Learning (SCS Majors)?
What is the policy regarding damages to Carnegie Mellon University property?
What are the names of the people who teach Spacagna AD and Teadt AE respectively?
What are the course names for the two special topics courses mentioned in this text?
 What properties do large language models exhibit when trained at a large enough scale?
What is the purpose of independent study courses for students who are interested in continuing to a Ph.D. degree?
On what date did Case Western Reserve University's baseball team play their final game?
What are the standards expected of students at Carnegie Mellon?
 How does GLoRA re-parameterize the weight and bias?
Who should you contact if you want to reserve outdoor field space?
How many courses are listed in the text?
Where can readers find more information about #SCS25?
What is the course code and title of the Strategy Development course offered on Monday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What was the result of the match against Indiana (PA) Greensburg Racquet Club?
What are the opportunities for graduate students to serve in this institution?
What are the names of the courses being offered in The Future of Real Estate and Energy Finance?
What are the general expectations for students pursuing a Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies?
What are the three courses being offered in this schedule?
 What is the methodology used by PinSage to construct neighborhoods?
 How is the alignment affected as Nd becomes larger in the experiments?
What is the title of Lightman's Independent Study and when does it meet?
Why did Computer Science Department face challenges in Mellon College of Science?
What is the name of the institution that offers Comprehensive Review (Music Ed) course?
 What is the purpose of Hasse diagrams in the comparison between lexiprecision and reciprocal rank orderings?
What is the duration for which doctoral students can continue receiving stipend funding if they are gestational parents?
What is the course code for Power Electronics for Electric Utility Systems?
What is the purpose of the Tartan Scholars program?
What is the instructor for Stage Management with Mr. Burns?
What are the two directing classes mentioned in this text?
How is GSA funded?
How does Cross-registration work in PCHE and what is its purpose?
What is the title of the first course listed in the text?
What are the locations of WEH buildings?
Where are the classes for Introduction to Engineering and Public Policy held?
What are the days and times for Honors Thesis held in DNM, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Freeman's Independent Study class?
When and where is Modern Physics Laboratory taught?
What is the academic program represented by Manoj Ghuhan Arivazhagan?
What does 'dismissal from the graduate program' mean?
What is the title of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 3:30 PM to 5:20 PM in room GHC 4301?
What is the name of the course taught by Haidar on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday?
What are the course codes of all courses offered by Achnani?
What is the course code for Fake News: 'Truth' in the History of American Journalism?
Who teaches these classes?
 Why was data augmentation considered for this shared task?
What is FERPA?
Who is the instructor for EUREKA!: Discovery and Its Impact on Tuesdays?
What was the result of Hitech's performance in October 1985?
Can a graduate course previously completed at Carnegie Mellon or another institution be used to satisfy one of the MIIS breadth requirements?
What does the term 'units of credit' mean in this context?
What are the days and times when 'Scenic Design Skills: 3D Model Making' is offered?
What are the locations of all courses listed in this text?
What is the policy on grades for transfer courses at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the dates and times of Demand Management & Price Optimization course?
In which room and at what time does CEE Infrastructure Systems in Action take place?
What are the names and times of Thiessen's lectures on Cognitive Modeling?
 What does the up-sampled source text X TEXT represent in the text?
 What does CodeBERTScore allow us to do when comparing code pairs?
How many instructors are mentioned for each instrumental study?
What is required for approval of the thesis and presentation?
What is the course code for Principles of Macroeconomics with Portnykh?
Where does Harper teach his class?
What is the course name and instructor for WEH 5403?
When is the Costume Design class held in this schedule?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Architecture Options Studios?
Why is Carnegie Mellon University special to Rashid?
What is the transfer credit policy at MIIS?
 What is the unique approach proposed by RARR for factuality detection?
 How is the task of performing recommendation described in the text?
 Why does WebArena generate unique user profiles on each platform?
 In which regions do the day-to-day and month-to-month variabilities of wind power increase under the SSP2-4.5 scenario?
 According to the text, what are some examples of changes within the GI search-space that can improve app performance?
What is the name of the research conducted by Manke-Miller and Plaut?
 What design paradigms do neural network frameworks generally fall into?
Who is the head coach of Men's Golf?
Who can students contact if they need medical assistance or counseling services related to sexual harassment or assault?
How can students in the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems program create their own course of study?
What are the topics of the courses offered on Thursday at 2:00 PM?
What are the course codes and names for each of the courses listed in the schedule?
What are the conditions for deferral at MIIS?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 2:00 PM to 4:50 PM?
Where was the Kenyon Fast Chance held?
 What is the focus of the environment created in the WebArena project?
What is the course taught by Professor Novosat at the same time as Writing for Professions in PH A19A?
Where is Josh Baugh from?
What is the topic of the course taught by Posner?
 What is the purpose of freezing trained parameters during adapter usage?
 How are cross-encoder models trained and evaluated?
Where can students find the Carnegie Mellon Code?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University's Master’s in Computational Finance program?
What is the title of the course taught by DeYoung?
 What is the relationship between an increase in CD8+TILs and AITL prognosis?
What are the names of the courses listed in the text that start at 12:20 PM on Tuesday?
Who are the teachers teaching at 12:00 PM - 12:50 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What are the course codes for the courses offered in this schedule?
When is the second class session for Business Leadership Endeavor II taking place?
What is the name of the course that teaches Production Finance?
What are the main categories listed in this table?
What are Professor Rosé's research interests?
When and where will Baird's PhD dissertation defense take place?
What is the name of the course taught by Moskal at 11:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday?
Where does Wenner L teach Global Justice at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What databases were used to organize and compare the original data in the GC-IMS spectra to obtain the fingerprint spectra of the sample’s volatile chemical substances?
Where are the instructors for Elective Studio (Cello) located?
 What improvements were found in the execution time when using GIDroid?
How many pieces did Papadimitriou compose, according to the text?
What is the expectation for students supported by research projects during winter and summer breaks?
When does the class 'Women, Politics, and Protest' start and end?
What is the name of the first course mentioned in the text?
How many authors are there in total?
What are the days and times when Software Engineering Practicum is offered?
What is the name of the student who will be presenting his/her directing thesis?
What is the course code for Acting for Directors I?
What are the days and times for Yilma's Calculus I course?
Who are the three people mentioned in this text?
What are the instructors for course 11604?
 How does rapport impact the success of peer-tutoring activities?
What happens if an international student does not make normal progress towards completing degree requirements?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'Production Prep:'?
When does Di Caro's Rapid Prototyping Technologies start?
What is the course name for Instructor TBA G's class?
What is the name of the school that Justin Chan attended?
When and where does Nanoparticles take place?
What kind of insurance plan does the university offer for its students?
What are the locations for the Independent Study courses in this schedule?
What is the name of the course that Ishizaki is taking at 9:30 AM?
What are the locations for Learning through Cultural Practices and Community A?
What did Michael Loren 'Fuzzy' Mauldin do after co-founding Conversive?
Who is responsible for making arrangements with Student Health Services to pay for their insurance at the beginning of the semester?
Where is Zapanta's class located?
What are the names of the teachers teaching 'Build Your Own Breadboard Computer' and 'Steep by Steep: Investigation into Tea Culture'?
When and where does 'Interaction Design Fundamentals B' take place?
 What are some of the perspectives from which measurements can be performed to characterize phase space?
What are the class timings of 'Special Topics: Advanced Python for Infrastructure Systems'?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What was used to minimize measurement noise during the experiments?
What are the names of the courses offered by Professor Wenner in this semester?
 What does the abbreviation ASR stand for in the context of the text?
Where is Undergraduate Independent Study Mini VAR A2 located and who are its instructors?
 What was the effectiveness of the caching operators introduced?
 What is the main focus of the study mentioned in the text?
What are Dr. Lori Levin's research interests?
What is the course code for Thesis Research and Writing?
Who is the head coach of the 2023-24 Tartan Women's Track and Field team?
 What is the primary focus of the study mentioned in the text?
 What might future models add that could introduce new vulnerabilities?
What are the names of the courses offered in this schedule?
 What threshold can be used during inference to generate binary gates?
What are the names of the authors listed in alphabetical order?
What is the course duration for each student's independent study?
 Which publication discusses measuring anxiety after Spinal Cord Injury and introduces the SCI-QOL Anxiety Item Bank?
What are Tim Connelly's titles and contact information in Men's Cross Country and Women's Cross Country?
What are the three time slots for Designing Human Centered Software C?
Where can you find more information about the Language Technologies Institute?
Can students graduate under policies that were in effect when they entered the program?
Who is the instructor for Philosophy of Social Science?
What are the courses under Breadth Courses: Human Language that can be counted as approved qualifying courses for SCS relevant to MIIS degree other than LTI?
What is the course code for Negotiation?
What is the name of the department(s) Louis-Philippe Morency belongs to?
Is there a part-time education option available for MIIS-21 students as well?
What is the name of the class taught by Moseley B F?
 What are multi-objective (MO) algorithms used for in software improvement?
What is the course title and instructor of the Academic Writing and Communication for Graduate Students offered by Instructor Austin?
What is the course name for MSBA Capstone?
What was Tartans' position in Golfweek DIII Fall Invite according to the news on October 15, 2023?
What is the name of the course that Corbett teaches in HL 106B?
Where are most SCS25 events held?
Why did Berliner tackle chess with scientific rigor?
What time did Men's Tennis start against Washington and Lee?
Does the University reimburse for taxes?
What is the instructor's name for Machine Learning (PhD) and Deep Reinforcement Learning & Control?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:00 PM and ends at 1:50 PM?
What are the days and times for Types and Programming Languages course taught by Professor Hoffmann?
When and where does Independent Study in Computer Sciences take place?
What is the purpose of OIE at Carnegie Mellon?
 How are reviewer profiles constructed in the experiments conducted?
Where is the strength and conditioning facility temporarily located?
 What is the purpose of bias correction in the study?
 What is the approach suggested in previous studies to transition to low-rank model training?
What should be done if a student requires longer than the standard time for master’s degree completion due to unforeseen circumstances?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 03:30PM and ends at 04:50PM?
What is the purpose of the Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students?
Who is the instructor for 'Supervised Reading in Nuclear Physics' and 'Supervised Reading in Particle Physics'?
What are the time slots for U 08:00AM 01:00PM CMU REMOTE?
Who is the instructor of Comprehensive Review (Analysis Paper) 1.0 offered by Instructor?
Who is Owen in relation to the Senior Capstone II class?
What are the names of the three music studies studios mentioned in this text?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching Rehearsal and Performance IV: Lear?
When does Gasper teach Designing the Digital Economy?
 What is the aim of the algorithm presented for Tucker decomposition in the text?
What is QPA in Carnegie Mellon University?
 Who are the authors of Reference [5] mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the individual music studies studios mentioned in the text for each instrument?
 What are the consequences of knowing the decoding method used to generate text?
Who is the instructor for the production management class of Macbeth's External Projects?
On which day did the Washington and Lee University meet take place?
 What was the purpose of SemanticSTF in the context of 3DSS benchmarks?
What is the course being offered by Pozzi in Urban Systems Modeling?
What is the course code for German Study Abroad Capstone?
 What is indicated as a major concern in the reliability of features seen on preoperative MRI images?
What is the name of the organization that offers cross-registration for Carnegie Mellon University students?
What are the topics covered in the Design Studies: Persuasion class?
What is the purpose of the 'Recrafting Soft Technologies' course?
How many pages does the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook have?
 What is a similarity between CP decomposition and SVD?
What is the name of the conference where these athletes compete in their sport?
What services are provided by University Health Services (UHS) at CMU?
What is the duration of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Scherer's independent study?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed?
How many hours does Undergraduate Internship VAR A have?
What are the names of the two people who teach Aylmer AB and Gruber AC respectively?
What was Reddy's role at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the definition of πθold in the given text?
 What does the Type-Token Ratio measure?
 What approach does the joint model take for dialogue act prediction according to the references?
What is the definition of 'Definition of' according to section 4.2 of LTI academic policies?
What does Cloudflare provide for the website bookstore.web.cmu.edu according to the given text?
If I applied last year and was not admitted, can I reapply this year?
When and where is the 'Sustainable Energy for the Developing World' course held?
What is the degree completion and certification process for MCDS at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Professor Gonzalez's class meet?
Who teaches Design Leadership?
Who teaches the Major Vocal Performance Ensemble class?
How many school records were set by the Tartans at UAA Championships on February 15, 2024?
Who were the instructors for Literature and Repertoire: Flute?
What kind of professional development opportunities are mentioned in section 7.7?
What is the total number of letters used to represent each instructor's name?
 What is the highest number in the sequence: 69.7, 65.4, 4.6, 4.5, 7.7?
In what city is the 'Topics in French and Francophone Studies: Paris after 2015: The Impacts of the 2015 Terrorist Attacks on Perceptions of the City' course held?
 How is the correlation distillation from CT to CS defined in CGKD?
What are the two options available as possible accommodation for gestational parents at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course code for Introduction to Philosophy (80100)?
What are the days and times of the classes for Production Prep: Lorca Stage Management D?
Where did Papadimitriou, Steranka V perform?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon Athletics Advisory Council?
What are the names of the two operas mentioned in the text?
 What are the three stages of the cross-modal fine-tuning workflow?
 What are the positions in the P3 and PB1 gene sequences that were screened for amino acid substitutions in the viruses?
Who teaches the two acting courses mentioned in this text?
What is unauthorized assistance?
What are the names of all classes taught by Tarr?
What is the name of the tournament that took place in this text?
 What is the Strengthening the reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology for Newborn infection (STROBE-NI) extension aimed at?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'Sender'?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's policy on grades for transfer courses?
What is the location of the event that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 3:00 PM?
When and where is Mathur's class held?
What is the title and location of the course offered by Berardone, Ashok at CMU REMOTE on Thursday from 7:00 PM to 8:20 PM?
 What criteria were used to screen volatile components with special contributions?
What are the days and times of EPP Internship in University Teaching?
What are the course codes for Spanish for Heritage Speakers and Advanced Russian II: Great Short Works?
Who should students contact for specific application/admissions questions?
 What is unsupervised machine translation (UMT) and how does it differ from zero-shot translation?
What is the location of Mathematics Colloquium?
Who teaches Engineering Design II: Conceptualization and Realization?
What is the policy regarding transfer credit evaluation and assignment?
 How does the proposed method allow for interpretability in the experiments section?
What are the days and times when Modern Experimental Design takes place?
Is there a requirement for Ph.D. students to spend any time at Carnegie Mellon?
Who should contact for specific application/admissions questions?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in section 2 of the text?
What is state space explosion and how does it affect model checkers?
Where can students find the university's general withdrawal policy?
What are the meeting times and location of Special Topics: Applied Python for Engineers: 12.0?
What is the purpose of CMU Alert?
What are the class timings and location of 'Advanced Polymer Science and Engineering: Advanced Polymer Science and Engineering'?
When do these two special topic courses take place?
What are the course codes and their respective times for Physics I for Science Students?
Why are visual-perception based CAPTCHAs not recommended?
What is the course name for section 21610?
What is the time and location of course 'Introduction to Costume Construction'?
What are the days and times each course is held?
 What is the focus of the Flamingo model?
What are the course codes for Department Research Honors?
On what date and time does the Men's Tennis team play against Trinity (Tex.)?
What is the name of the class taught by Wu at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the topic of Developing Blockchain Use Case 6.0?
What is the purpose of the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
How did Rashid's mother react when she found out about his decision?
When does Digital System Testing and Testable Design class take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Reducing Conflict Around Identity and Positionality?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the address of the Gates Hillman Complex at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of the 'On-Campus Emergencies' section?
What is the advantage of a global perspective in Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course taught by Yang in CFA 214 at 09:30AM?
 Which experiments showed a higher dissociation between the presence of query entities in relevant passages from 2019 to 2020?
What is the duration of a typical MLT course?
Where is the lecture for Ada, Saad W held?
 What batch size is used for all methods during training?
When and where does Risch teach 9.0 Lec 1?
Where does the 'Leadership/Management Seminar: How Washington Works' class take place?
What are the names of the courses taught by Spacagna AD, Teadt AE, Schepkin BB, Chiu BC, Papadimitriou C, and Instructor TBA BA?
What is the course title for DH A302?
 What instructions are given to the workers in the evaluation process?
Who are the instructors for Design Perspectives in HCI?
 Which toolkit was used for conducting all experiments in the text?
What are the days and times when Cyber Defense is offered?
What is the name of the instructor for Editing and Publishing course?
What are the names of the three acting classes listed in this schedule?
Where is Sullivan and Shields' literature and repertoire event held?
What is the course code for Grand Challenge Seminar: Reducing Conflict Around Identity and Positionality?
What are the class names for Public Management?
 What licenses are associated with the EntityQuestions dataset?
 What approach does Zhang et al. (2020a) propose to address the problems faced by multilingual NMT models?
What are the names of the courses taught by Corbett at DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times when course 15251 is offered?
What is the location of the course 'Special Topics: Generative AI and Large Language Model (S3)', and what are its timings?
What are the days of the week and time for Computational Discrete Mathematics in room GHC 4303?
How can students at the university improve their professional skills?
Who teaches Advanced Cloud Computing at DH 2315 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Gruber's advanced music studies studio?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What is the name of the university where this information was found?
Who are the instructors for Architecture Design Studio: POIESIS STUDIO 1?
What is the purpose of the university policy on grades?
Why there was confusion over the fact that there was both a School of Computer Science and a Computer Science Department?
What is the source of all policies not explicitly described in this document?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Psychology with Oppenheimer E?
Where is the main campus of this institution located?
What is the website address of CMU's University Libraries?
What is the course code, title, time, and location of the Intermediate Statistics course offered on Monday and Wednesday?
When and where does Introduction to Decision Analytics and Systems take place?
What are the names of the people leading Production Management and Costume Design?
What kind of dining services does Carnegie Mellon University offer?
What are the three main libraries at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is the Music & Money class held?
What is the purpose of BeWell@CMU e-newsletter?
What is the purpose of the capstone project in the MIIS program?
What did Pat Crecine become when he became president of Georgia Tech?
 What does the cross-sectional area of the vocal tract equal to in the text?
What is the instructor for Production Prep: SOM 3 Lighting Design I?
What are the days, times, and location of the course that starts at 6:30 PM on Wednesday and ends at 9:20 PM in room HBH 1204?
Who teaches 'Teaching Apprentiship - French A' and 'Graduate Research Seminar'?
What is the location of the school mentioned in this text?
Who are the people listed in this text?
 What is more important for downstream performance according to the text: data quality or data source heterogeneity?
Who teaches the IDeATe Special Topics in Animation: Advanced 3D Asset Creation (for Animation Production) course at DNM in Pittsburgh?
What does the author mean by 'Multimodal Machine Learning'?
What are the names of the classes being offered by Russman at PCA on A T from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
How many courses are taught by Bartos in this schedule?
 Which electronic device is larger?
Where is the location of this text?
 How did the byte- and IPA-based models perform compared to the baseline method?
Who teaches Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations at 10:00AM on MWF?
Who are the instructors for Crawford AA and Gessner GG?
What are the operating hours of SafeWalk during regular academic year?
 What is the title of the paper by Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Thomas L Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan?
What are the days and times for Crafting Software lecture?
What is the title of the course offered on Tuesday from 6:00 PM to 7:50 PM?
Is this calendar feed for a specific sport or sports team?
What is the name of the second course?
Where was the event held?
What is Sara Gauntner's title in Recreational Programs?
What are the curricular requirements for students at MIIS?
What is the purpose of the Kiltie Marching Band?
What is Scott Fahlman's current project?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Dr. Abbott in this semester?
Who are the students for Junior Recital Voice?
What are the days and times of Bagpipe Advanced History?
Who is WashU playing against in the Softball game on Sat, Apr/20 at 3:00 PM EDT?
What are the course codes for Computer Graphics, Computational Photography, and Graduate Reading and Research?
What is the location of 'API Design and Implementation: 12.0' classroom?
 What is the representation of general 3D facial shape mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Design Thesis II, a 18.0 credit course held at TBA in room MM 215?
 Which objectives from BERT did they use in their PII detection model training?
 What are the two other methods for text clustering mentioned in the text?
 Why is aerosol emissions reduction important for enhancing solar energy capture?
What is the role of Carnegie Mellon University's Athletics Department regarding transgender students?
How can MS students contact the Help Center at SCS?
Who are the instructors for Statistical Models of the Brain and Independent Study courses?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What rights do students have regarding their education records?
What does the Employment Eligibility Verification Policy cover at Carnegie Mellon University?
What should I provide as my current address?
What is required before a student can enroll in the next semester?
What does the annual campus security and fire safety report include?
 What is the end-to-end task success rate achieved by the best GPT-4-based agent in the benchmark tasks?
 What is the purpose of learning models of human feedback?
Does the text mention anything about the availability of tuition waivers for graduate students in the MCDS degree program?
Do doctoral students participate in the voucher process at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for classes HBH 1006, Goranson D2, and Ghani?
Where are all these instructors located?
When and where does Ficca teach Architecture Options Studios?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
How can you contact the Language Technologies Institute?
What are some examples of different lengths of graduate programs at Carnegie Mellon?
Where and when does the 'Star Wars: The Course Awakens' take place?
 How does the stress intensity factor change with an increase in the initial crack propagation angle?
When is Assessment in Music Education class held?
What are the two main categories of services provided in section 8?
Where can students find information about intellectual property policy in the MCDS degree program?
What are the names of the courses offered by Ms. Wang in Pittsburgh?
What high school did Elaine Qian attend?
Who teaches Dramaturgy 2: Introduction to Production Dramaturgy at WEH 5304 on TR from 09:30AM-10:50AM?
What are the course codes for Electronics I and II?
What are the names and locations of Park's classes?
What is the purpose of the Project Olympus Startup Incubator?
Where does Burkert teach Interdisciplinary Undergraduate Research 3-12?
 What is the proposed tool for multi-objective automated improvement of Android apps mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of the text?
 Why is including longer context important in machine translation?
 In which city did Liu et al. study a typical air-pollution episode in winter 2017?
Who are the instructors for Major Studio (Bagpipe) and Major Studio (Collaborative Piano)?
What is the main topic discussed in section 1 of the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Acting I, Speech I, and Directing I: A Director's Preparation?
What is the course code for Movement II?
Where are the independent study projects located?
What kind of support does the University Libraries offer to graduate students?
 What was used as a coating during binding of the framework of ordinary steel reinforcement for rust prevention?
What is the time of Literature and Repertoire: Violin class?
 What is a controversial MRI characteristic in terms of predicting MVI status in hepatocellular carcinoma?
 What metrics are used to evaluate the SE models?
 What does consistency measure in evaluating multi-modal LLMs?
Where did Bain PP take place?
What is the course code of The Arts in Qatar?
What are the names of the days when each event is taking place?
What are the university policies and expectations for students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 Which components dominated the aerosol chemical composition during the observation period?
 In early training stages, what can be used as a reliable metric for assessing the success of the training process?
What are the course codes for Stagecraft and Scene Painting?
 How much more time does using kNN-MT take compared to not using it, on a Nvidia Titan RTX GPU?
 What is the title of the article by Solanki et al. in Bound.-Layer Meteor. 2021?
 What were the procedures involved in scRNA-seq?
What is the name of the instructor for the Elective Studio (Cello) class?
What are some race and ethnically focused programs available at Carnegie Mellon University?
When are the classes held at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Wednesdays?
 What time did people start to arrive for the cookout?
 Where can the code of OpenMatch be found?
What is the course code for Senior Honors Thesis?
How can a student interested in transferring out of the MCDS degree program learn if it's possible?
What is the mission of Carnegie Mellon's University Libraries?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Saturday mornings from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What are the days and times when 'Introduction to African American History: Black Americans and the World' is offered?
What is the name of the course taught by Ritivoi?
 What was the interval for radiological follow-up after hepatectomy in the study?
What are the contact details for Robert Frederking?
What kind of research can be reported through the reporting system?
 What are some categories that show improvement with the regularized version?
 How many carbon-neutral scenarios are included in the two carbon-neutral pathways produced by CovidMIP from 2020 to 2050?
What is the course code for Modern Languages Independent Study?
What are the days and times for Machine Learning 10301 and Machine Learning 10601?
What is the name of the course that starts at 9:00 AM on Monday and teaches Advanced Fabrication?
What is the name of the national academy where Herbert A. Simon became a member in 1984?
What are the four sections in Carnegie Mellon's academic policies?
 What are some of the principles imparted to Jais-chat during instruction-tuning to ensure safety?
What time does the Women's Tennis match start?
Who is responsible for sound design in the Production Prep class related to A Little Night Music?
Where are the two acting courses mentioned in this text located?
Name two classes taught by Aguiar.
At what time does Sandholm's Special Topic: Machine Learning in a Nutshell start?
What is the title of the course taught by Ferreira in 19867?
What is the class name and day for the class that meets at PH A21A in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where did Shafi have a summer internship during her studies?
Who, according to the author, invented the sideways smiley face built from ASCII characters?
 How can the distinguishability metric be manipulated according to the text?
What is the name of the golf club where the Tartan Women's Golf team will play their first match?
Where can students find a complete breakdown of the Ph.D. program and its policies?
When is The Basics of Self-Producing for Theater Artists class held?
 What is the proportion of toxic, NSFW, or sexually explicit content in the situations dataset, and how was it balanced?
What is the standard length of time for a master's program at Carnegie Mellon University?
What was the name of the postseason event Tartan Football team played in against Brockport St.?
What are the key areas a student in Information Science and Technology study cycle should be familiar with?
Where is the Career and Professional Development Center located at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of the instructor for W 05:00 PM - 06:50 PM?
Why is the Scottish terrier mentioned as a natural choice for Carnegie Mellon's mascot?
Where is the largest public park in Pittsburgh located?
What is the name of the independent study course for Master’s students taught by Goral, Sawyer, Cupkova E, Cochran F, Gruber J, Byrne M, Cardoso Llach O, Huber R, Baird V, Loftness X and Lee?
What does 'Print' mean in this context?
 What is the main idea of the Unlimiformer approach?
What is the course code for Computational Perception offered by Neuroscience Institute?
What is the name of the annual Old School - New School Challenge?
What is the name of the department where Dr. Lori Levin works?
What is the time slot for Stagecraft Rigging (2 units) D3?
Who has the discretion to assign final grades?
When is the Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence for Engineers course being held?
What is the name of the class that starts at 11:00 AM on Sunday?
What are the titles of the two courses that start with 'Production'?
What are the names of the courses mentioned in this text that start at 10:00 AM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
 How are the speech features predicted in the supervised learning process?
 Who was acknowledged for their help with the figures in the text?
 Who performed the data analysis for the study?
 How do Ma et al. (2020) propose to reduce implicit bias in text?
What is the name of the course being offered on Mondays from 6:30 PM to 10:23 PM?
When and where does Wassif's 'Reading in Forms: Poetry & Prose' course take place?
What is the purpose of an emergency loan?
What are the names of the instructors for each listed production preparation course?
When and where will Dr. Affara teach Modern Biology Laboratory in Fall 2023?
 What trade-off is expected when considering different expansion terms in the query/document, according to the text?
What are the days of the week when each course is held?
Can a course satisfy requirements in two degree programs?
What is the role of GSA in building a sense of community among graduate students?
 How is the number of nodes in the middle model and the size of the core tensor determined?
 What is the key idea of model training in the ACL algorithm?
When was the kickoff meeting for CMU Portugal's new ERP Signo held?
What is the email address of Teruko Mitamura?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 9:00 AM - 9:50 AM in WEH 7500, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Topics in Experimental Design and Data Analysis for Neuroscience?
How many independent studies are listed in the text?
On what days does Solfege for Conductors I take place in room TBA?
What are some recent accomplishments of GSA?
How do students plan their return from a Leave of Absence?
 What can be inferred from the scatter plots in Figure 3 regarding chainlink gene counts and chainlink connectivity?
What are the names of the courses taught by Gauntner, Hullah, and Moraga?
Who teaches Differential Equations in Lecture 1 of MWF 08:00AM - 08:50AM?
What is the author's opinion about the use of smiley faces in email messages?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
What is the name of the class that starts at 03:20PM in this text?
 What percentage of the performance gain of kNN-LM is attributed to ensembling the output of softmax using two representations from different layers of the transformer?
Who teaches AI Generated Animation in Advanced ETB: Animation Studio?
What does the Eberly Center aim to do with its evidence-based teaching strategies?
When and where is Independent Study: Depth held?
Is it appropriate to contact faculty members directly with specific questions about their research?
What are the names of the two courses that start at 6:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room CFA 206A?
Do non-native English speakers have to meet specific language proficiency requirements?
Where can students find information about the stops, routes, tracking, and schedules of the Shuttle and Escort Services?
 What kind of aerosols are almost spherical with a relatively low depolarization?
What is the page number where information about Family and Dependents Resources can be found?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in room PH A7F at 10:00 AM?
 Where was the paper by Jinhua Zhu, Fei Gao, Lijun Wu, Yingce Xia, Tao Qin, Wengang Zhou, Xueqi Cheng, and Tie-Yan Liu presented?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about designing for the Internet of Things?
Who is teaching the 'Advanced Topics in Stage Management: Cross-Boundaries' class on Monday and Wednesday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What is the recommended TOEFL score equivalent to an IELTS score of 7?
 How is the content hosted and delivered in WebArena?
 What does the bulk aerosol composition measured by the ASCM mainly reflect?
Who are the instructors for English/Contemporary Literature and Repertoire at F 09:00AM in HOA 225?
What is the name of the production that starts at 06:20PM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
When and where is Professional Essentials for the Percussionist class held?
How many credits does Arab Culture Through Dialogues, Film, and Literature: 9.0 have?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
What are the course codes and days/times for History 79051 Study Abroad?
What is the name of Carnegie Mellon's university libraries?
Which courses are part of the Breadth Courses: Machine Learning category in PhD program?
When and where is Studio Project III held?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
What is the role of Instructor TBA F?
Where is the institute located?
What is the title of the course that starts at 02:00PM on Monday and Wednesday in GHC4211?
Where is Adeinat's course, Marketing Research, held?
Which player's hometown/high school is Greentown, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes for Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Health and Interdisciplinary Undergraduate Research?
 What is the role of sequence or discriminative training in ASR models?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button in the text?
What are the days and times when Smith teaches Philosophy of Social Science?
Can students find information about tuition on their website, according to this text?
 What is the takeaway regarding using non-learning-based compression techniques for compressing activations?
Who are the authors listed alphabetically from A to I?
Which section provides information about student services center, online student information, ID cards, transcripts, etc.
What are the course codes for Dadfar's classes?
What are the course codes for the two courses that start at 7:00 PM on Monday?
Who developed CAPTCHAs, a type of challenge-response test that is used to determine whether or not the user is human?
Where are Singh's courses held in Pittsburgh?
 What does the performance of the methods evaluated in the domain generalization tasks depend on?
What is the location of Children I class?
Which studio specializes in Music Entrepreneurship and what are its initials?
Which professor is teaching Biologically Intelligent Exploration at 2:00 PM on Tuesdays in room BH 336B?
 Why is adding a temperature term to the kNN non-parametric component crucial to the success of modeling?
How many students are enrolled in the Master's Degree Research program at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the 'Connect' page on Language Technologies Institute's website?
Who are the instructors for 'Sound Forum' course offered on Monday and Wednesday from 4:00 PM to 4:50 PM in PCA 103?
What is the location of the Elective Studio (Horn)?
What are the three courses offered by Haden B2 in PCA 103?
What are some examples of policies mentioned in the text?
What are the main categories of programs offered by the university's School of Computer Science?
What was the date of the NCAA Championships for Men's Cross Country in 2023?
How can one collaborate with LTI?
What are the days and times for Ph.D. Seminar III?
 What is the learning rate used in the training of the downstream model?
What is the purpose of sharing this information through a post?
 What does the proposed negative-power contrastive representation learning objective aim to demonstrate in the Ant Maze task?
What are the names of the courses listed in the text that start at 9:00 AM on Tuesday?
 Would B.A and bachelor link to the same entity’s article on Wikipedia?
What are the days and times that the course 'VMD Systems Studio: 9.0 VMD Systems Studio A' is held?
 How do Specter+MFR and Specter compare to ELMo according to the text?
 What is a limitation mentioned in the text regarding the use of powerful language models?
What are the class codes for Product Marketing and Machine Learning Fundamentals?
Who is the instructor for 05682 METALS Project 2?
What is the course title of the class taught by Zhang in room TEP 2613 at the University of Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the organization that hosts these events?
 What is the main point of the text?
What are the consequences of dropping courses in SCS?
 In Table 6, what is the key difference in performance evaluation between multilingual and crosslingual event linking?
What are the names of all instructors teaching Competition Programming I?
 What is the purpose of using term frequency – inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) in the study?
Who are the instructors for Major Vocal Performance Ensemble?
What are the days and times when 'Production Prep: Lorca: Production Management' is offered?
 What are some limitations of the ACL60/60 evaluation sets?
Who teaches Machine Learning with Large Datasets?
What is the location of Comprehensive Review (Analysis) 1.0 taught by Ito?
What are the course codes for the two Acting classes offered by Ms. Rivera Lebron?
 What is the name of the self-supervised learning (SSL) model discussed in the text?
When is ICSE 2024 conference held?
What is the name of the course that teaches Introduction to Writing for Television?
What is the main purpose of the Master's degree in Computational Data Science according to the document?
 What is the architecture of the Im2Sp model described in the text based on?
 What is Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding?
What should graduate students do if they need immediate funds for emergency situations?
What is the subject and duration of 'Music in the Secondary School' course?
What are the days, times and locations of Shi's course 'Macroeconomics II: Macroeconomics II'?
What is the curriculum for the dual-degree Ph.D. program in Language and Information Technologies?
What is Penelope's production preparation class about?
What are the course codes for Stagecraft and Directing?
What is the course code and title of the first class listed in the schedule?
What is the main focus of Dr. Lori Levin's work?
What is the name of the course being taught by Engineer C in room WEH5421 at 2:00 PM?
Who are the instructors teaching Music and Technology Performance/Thesis 1-18?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses listed in the schedule that start at 2:00 PM?
What if I have taken the GMAT?
What event do these athletes participate in?
What happens upon completion of the graduate program degree requirements?
What are the days and times of the classes for Machine Learning Systems, Database Systems, Algorithm Design and Analysis, Undergraduate Complexity Theory, and all sections of Computer Science 15442?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
What does CIE stand for in this context?
What are some relevant research that should be considered by a Ph.D. student when composing their thesis topic and proposal?
What is the significance of Vladimir Nabokov's quote mentioned in this text?
Why did he choose the speech recognition project among several others suggested by McCarthy?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Psychology with Oppenheimer C?
When does Instrumental/Choral Conducting meet in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Arons Teaching Practicum?
 Why is the development of household robotic assistants considered a north star for roboticists?
What are the names of the two individuals who offer advanced music studies for Cello at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What are some methods that have been previously used in speech enhancement?
What is the course title for Strickland's class?
Who scored 1,000th career point against which team?
What are the timings for the class named 'Probabilistic Graphical Model'?
What should students do to get the most up-to-date information about public health and safety requirements?
What is the email address of Bhiksha Ramakrishnan?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Independent Study in African American Studies?
What are the course names and their respective credit hours for Finger 12780, Finger 12783, and Harper 12790?
What is the title of the course that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 12:20 PM?
What are the time periods for each independent study course?
 What is the main focus of the text regarding software improvement?
What is the course name and location for Blockchain and SQL Fundamentals I2 W 05:00PM - 08:00PM?
What is the role of a dean (or designate) in relation to student's lapse?
 Did most participants feel that the criticism of conducting additional expensive experiments was justified?
 What conditions were examined during the non-compositional translation experiment?
What company was partnered with the Task Force to develop the graphics for Carnegie Mellon's new mascot?
Why did J. Biit lose the North American Computer Chess Championship?
What is the name of Teruko Mitamura's personal website?
What is the name of the course taught by Zaffora Blando in PH 125C?
 What improvement do we see in ROUGE-L when using BASS-Adapt with block inference over the 10-second truncated baseline?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania? (Part 2)
 What kind of adverbs are required in the data curation process described in the text?
 What is the pairwise accuracy score recommended by Deutsch et al. (2023)?
Where is the search form located on this website?
What is the name and location of Healey's class?
What is the course title and instructor of Architecture Design Studio: POIESIS STUDIO 3?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered by Kesden at HH B103?
Who instructs PR 53689 at Entertainment Technology Center Independent Study?
 What percentage of the general population is reported to have speech pathologies?
What are the courses outside of the School of Computer Science?
Where does Behavioral Economics Capstone take place?
What is the name of the student who taught a course on 'Introduction to Minecraft'?
 What is the primary focus of the meta learning research mentioned in the text?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
 According to Figure 5, which approach is more cost-effective than a true oracle pairwise constraint oracle for entity canonicalization?
What is the time and location of A W section of Principles of Software Construction: Objects, Design, and Concurrency?
What does the university policy on grades state?
What kind of information can be found regarding domestic partners' benefits eligibility?
When and where does Introduction to Biomechanics take place?
What is taught at Rusinek Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)?
What was Berliner's initial plan when he returned to civilian life?
Where are the classes held on Friday at 3:00 PM and 4:50 PM?
At what time does Undergraduate Research class start and end according to the given schedule?
What is the course name for class code 62195?
What does the author suggest as a fallback when there's insufficient time or data to build an NLP system?
 What is the historical reference for EP as a method of passing messages?
What city does Instructor C live in?
What are the names of the instructors for Reading and Research 1-48 class?
What is the role of the Capstone Project in earning an MSAII degree?
Which professor is teaching Perception at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays in room BH 336B?
What is the name of Penelope's production prep class?
What is Yonatan Bisk's title?
 What is the relationship between language modeling loss and scaling factors for language models?
What are the names of all courses taught by instructor Aldrich?
 How many layers do the I3D encoders have in total?
Who is teaching the Lighting Production class for Production Prep of Macbeth and when are they scheduled?
What is the course name for MWF 10:00AM - 10:50AM?
What is the significance of 600-level or higher courses being considered as qualifying courses?
In which time slot does Introduction to Mathematical Concepts take place?
 How many queries are there in the final training set for the task?
What are the names and course codes for Paulisick Ammirati's classes?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Gkioulekas?
What is the website link to access the online version of the annual security and fire safety report?
 What is a significant gain of using image-and-text context on retrieval accuracy?
What are the two time slots for Production Prep: Lear?
What was the outcome of Geneva's game against W&J in the PAC semifinals, as reported by GCC's upset bid falls short against Geneva in PAC semifinals?
What is the URL of the website mentioned in the text?
Which course is taught by Tsu in PCA 305 at 2:00 PM on Mondays and Wednesdays?
 Why may the AOD show an increasing trend while PM2.5 mass concentrations from near-surface observations are low?
What is the course code for Harvesting Personal Narratives: A Writing Workshop?
 What is suggested to be prioritized when designing sparse articulatory feature sets?
What is the purpose of Wiegand Gymnasium at CMU?
What are the days and times of Sustainable Design Synthesis Prep?
 What does the acronym SAMA stand for in the context of meta gradient computation in a distributed data parallel setting?
Who is the captain of the 2023 Tartan Volleyball Roster?
 What is the unique contribution of the non-autoregressive approach discussed in the research?
What is the course code for MCS Leadership Development Seminar?
 From which Chinese microblogging website were most of the dialogues in the LCCC corpus collected?
What is the address of the Language Technologies Institute?
 What was proposed as a prediction model for the effective stress transfer length of prestressed steel wire strand after failure?
How many classes are mentioned in this text, and what are their names?
How can someone contact the Language Technologies Institute for inquiries?
When is Piano Pedagogy I class held?
What are the days and timings for Dietrich College Interdisciplinary Study Abroad?
Who is the moderator of the panel discussion on October 10?
Where is the Parking and Transportation Services office located?
What should students do before they enroll for the next semester if they have previous semester balances to pay?
How many instructors are there at TBA?
 How does the algorithm for estimating p work?
 What setup was used as input to the LLMs for the prompts?
Who teaches 'Chemistry and Sustainability' at 6:00 PM?
 What percentage of words that are part of major errors can be correctly identified by annotations predicted by PaLM-2 models?
Who teaches Digital Photography I?
What is the title of the course that Lassman will teach at WEH 4623?
What is the name of the course being taught at 12:30 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
Who are the instructors for the ENGAGE in Wellness: Looking Forward 1.0 A1 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Willard, Howell, Stump, Hovis, Turnshek course?
Who are the people you can find information about in the 'Faculty' section of the Language Technologies Institute website?
What is the course code for Machine Learning for Text and Graph-based Mining?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Friday from 8:00 AM to 9:50 AM in room HOA 224?
What are the names of the courses offered at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for Production Prep on MTWRF from 6:30PM - 10:30PM?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Conducting and Independent Study in Opera?
What are the topics of the courses offered on Tuesday and Thursday at 3:30 PM?
What is Jeremy Olisar's role in the university's athletics department?
What is the purpose of the leave of absence process at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the time slots for TBA instructor on Friday and Saturday?
Who is eligible to receive funding from the Student Emergency Support?
What instrument does Instructor TBA teach at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Saxophone NB?
What are the services related to Computing provided by the company?
 According to related work, what are the five key characteristics a state-of-the-art detector for content generated by LLMs should possess?
What was Reddy’s undergraduate work about?
 What does the Token-and-Duration Transducer (TDT) architecture do?
What is the policy discussed in the text?
What is the course code for 'Human AI Interaction'?
 According to Table 5, how does the word2vec-based model compare to the transformer-based models in terms of performance?
Where and when does the Production Resource Management class take place?
Who teaches Latin American Politics in this semester's schedule?
What should students do to register for Maternity Accommodations?
 Why is the performance of the Im2Sp model lower compared to image captioning?
What is the course name, credit hours, meeting time, and location of the course with course code 88699?
What should students do if they are considering withdrawing from the MCDS program?
What are the names of the production team members for 'A Little Night Music'?
Where was the Spire Midwest Open held?
 How much accuracy loss is observed when using AE and quantization algorithms for compression?
What kind of medical therapies are Microsoft researchers experimenting with using computational biology?
What happens if a student commits a first violation according to the University’s Academic Disciplinary Actions procedures?
 What is the content of Figure 9 according to the text?
 What was the relationship between solar radiation, near-surface temperature, and relative humidity on 11 February in PE2?
Where and when does Shapiro teach 'Role Playing Game Writing Workshop'?
What are some additional materials available to learn more about Raj Reddy?
Who are the individuals listed under the departments starting with 'Gruber', 'Spacagna', and 'Teadt'?
What are the course codes for Polymeric Biomaterials and Additive Manufacturing Laboratory?
What are the topics of discussion in Beck's class?
What are the units of Internship (Studio-Based Graduate Programs) Master of Advanced Architectural Design?
What is the title of the course being offered in room HH C108 at 3 PM?
Where is the location of Almarza's music studies studio?
Where does Revenge Tragedy take place?
 In the third text, what encoder architecture has become the de facto for speech processing?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
 What is the purpose of converting the original image into image units in the Im2Sp model?
Who wrote the first chess-playing program with Allen Newell and Cliff Shaw?
 What controls the rotation of the sample in the sample positioning stage?
Who is the instructor for MIIS Capstone Project?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
How can I check the status of my PhD application?
What is the title of the course being offered in room HH C108 at 10:30 AM?
What does The WORD contain according to the given text?
What is the course code for Off-Grid Electricity Systems?
What is the purpose of the 'Latest Projects' section?
How many Collaborative Piano classes are there, according to the schedule provided?
Who teaches the 'Introduction to Competitive Pokemon' course?
How many academic semesters are there for MIIS-21 Advanced Study track?
Who developed Lycos, one of the first successful search engines on the World Wide Web?
What is the significance of sharing this information via email?
What is the course 'From Augustine to Avatars: Personal Narratives Across Media' about?
Where does Racquetball: 3.0 take place at DNM Pittsburgh?
What are the names of the courses offered from 57618 to 57620?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in Chapman Hall?
 What analysis techniques were used to identify different cell clusters in the study?
When and where will Literature & Repertoire: French Horn be taught?
 What are the two ways considered to estimate accuracy and calibration from the resulting approximate posterior?
In what room does 'BH 246A' teach their class?
What kind of jobs do most graduates from the MCDS program go on to have?
 Where can all the code and results related to this work be found?
 What is the total number of model parameters in the encoder and decoder of the models used?
What is the name of the person who will be working on Lighting Production for Gajic's production?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday at 2:00 PM?
What are the names of the people who have meetings in San Jose and what times do they start?
Where is the lecture 'Fundamentals of Programming and Computer Science 12.0' held in terms of building?
How many students are studying each instrument?
 What is the purpose of the European External Inﬂuenza Virus Quality Assessment Programme?
What is an emoticon?
What is the title and location of the independent study held by Eckhardt and O'Hallaron?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at BH 336B?
Where are the courses taught?
What is the purpose of providing CS user id to MS students?
Which page number does the text mention a handbook related to graduate student life at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the name of the dataset collected and released in the paper?
What are the names of the speakers for Lighting Forum, and what time does it start?
What is the course code for all courses taught by Bukh?
What is the course code for 'Leadership Development Seminar'?
What additional responsibility do individuals have who expect to work on a federally funded project?
What did Carl Ebeling do with Hitech?
What happens when a Master's student requires longer than the standard time to complete their degree requirements?
What is the name of the course that teaches Natural Language Processing: Advanced?
What is the name of the policy that implements disciplinary actions according to department/program procedures?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Quality Assurance and Advanced Formal Methods?
How do you check the availability of the CMU Soccer Field?
What is the course name and time for ICT Business?
Can I apply for multiple programs at the School of Computer Science?
What is the role of technology in solving complex problems?
What are the names of the performers in event BB?
What is the requirement for submitting proof of English proficiency if you are currently working on or have received a bachelor's and/or a master's degree in the U.S.?
What is the title of Cranor and Agarwal's lecture?
Who are the instructors at the Branson, Evans, and Allen UA program?
 What caused the secondary transfer of residual prestress in the steel wire strand specimens?
In which room does the 'Strategies in Information Markets' course take place?
 Who reviewed and approved the studies involving human participants?
What is the course code and title of the Spain: Language and Culture class offered at 11:00AM in room HOA 107?
What is the course title and time slot of the Stop-Motion Animation class?
What city does Instructor Kelly teach in?
What is the statement of assurance that Carnegie Mellon University follows?
When is Fundamentals of Computational Biomedical Engineering held?
What is the name of the course that starts on page 6, line 9 and ends at Carnegie Mellon Institute for Strategy and Technology?
 What does unnecessary retrieval introduce according to the text?
What is the purpose of the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Paulini at 4:00 PM on Monday?
When is the class 'Topics in Chinese Language, Culture and Society' held?
What are the names of the people leading Scenic Design and Carnegie Scenic?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
 What technique has been used to improve OCR in low-resourced settings?
 How were the negatives sampled during training?
Where is the Additive Manufacturing Laboratory located?
What is the name of the course held in room GHC 4303 on Monday at 12:00 PM?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon University's Ethics Hotline?
What are the two main sections covered under chapter 3?
How many times a year should an LTI Ph.D. student complete their oral presentation?
How does one apply to this doctoral program according to the process described on the CMU-Portugal website?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesdays from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in MI 348?
What is the policy on transferring into the MCDS program?
What are the days and times of Jefferson, Cato's Intermediate Studio: Museum as Resource course?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching the VAR Directing class?
What are the locations where people can stop by to request an escort?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product in the SUS region?
What is the name of the lecture video that accompanies the ACM Turing Award for Shafi Goldwasser's work?
Where can students find department specific information about the administration and academic policies of their program?
What is the name of the center that provides assistance for individuals with disabilities at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many student-athletes identify as ADPI at Carnegie Mellon?
 In which two months do GRASP/Component retrievals and MERRA-2 products show almost the same BC column concentration in the SOA region?
In which room does the lecture for 'Nature of Language' start at 12:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
Who teaches Mentzer's class?
Who sponsored the groundbreaking technology of Smart Traffic Signals?
Is this a morning or an afternoon course according to the text?
Where did Berliner serve during his time in the U.S. Army?
 What type of behavior does the WavLM model exhibit according to Figure 13?
Is there a policy against sexual harassment and sexual assault at the institution?
Who should students contact for more information on the undergraduate minor?
 What do the results underscore about the adaptability and applicability of unified representations?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at CMR F205 on B3 TR?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:30PM on Thursdays?
What is the name of the course taught by Qiu F?
 Why is data diversification preferred over conventional data augmentation techniques?
What are the 25 key offices for Health, Wellness & Safety?
What is the purpose of Leonard Hamey’s post suggesting (#) for humor according to the author?
How can I check the status of my application?
What is Carnegie Mellon's policy regarding alcohol on campus?
What was the final score of the Women's Tennis game against #17 Case Western Reserve?
What is the course 'Independent Study: Topics in Photography' about?
What does the phrase 'across a variety of teaching contexts' mean?
What are the names of Arscott and Rafson?
Where does Parallel Computer Architecture and Programming take place?
What was the result of the game played between #17 WashU and Carnegie Mellon?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Bagpipes), Elective Studio (Jazz), and Elective Studio (Solfege)?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the course name of the class offered by Jia F in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Monday and Wednesday at BH A53?
What is the source of this text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Advanced Business Analytics and Big Data and Large-scale Computing?
What is the course name for Lowry's Advanced Independent Study class?
What is the course name for Jafry O'Connor's Business Leadership Endeavor I?
What is the name of the course that teaches Literature and Repertoire: Brass?
When does the 'Lighting Design' class take place?
What should the instructor do if they have not recorded the permanent course grade by the last day of the examination period?
When was The Kiltie Band founded?
 What approach does the text suggest to enhance both sub-tasks in the experiments?
What are the guidelines for repeating courses at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the average cost of annotating each dialogue in the HCChinese dataset?
What is the location of the last class in the text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Smith and Rivera Lebron?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Deserno at 9:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
 What percentage of patients without peritumoral HBP hypointensity and satellite nodule had a low risk of intrahepatic recurrence?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What performance metric was used to evaluate the submitted systems in Tables 1 and 2?
What are the days and times of Lecture 2 for Basic Experimental Physics?
Where did the April 2023 edition of the NYC AI GPT Hackathon take place?
Which player has the highest number on the roster?
What time does the Costume Crafts: Theatrical Armor class start at?
What are the names of the classes that take place on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 06:30PM to 10:20PM?
What are the names of the buildings where El Hajj, Sun W, Thornton A, and Gordon B teach their courses?
When and where are the classes of Language Technologies Institute 11324, Machine Learning in Practice 11344, Undergrad Independent Study 11345, LTI Minor Project - Juniors 11390 held?
 What is the problem with the previous parsers, according to the text?
 What are some methods mentioned in the text for augmenting existing data?
In which section can you find information about graduate student funding?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What is the name of the school that offers Casale's classes in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the 'Faculty', 'Staff', and 'Visitors' sections in Language Technologies Institute?
Who is the instructor for CIT Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Design Project 3-24?
 What does Fig. 4 in the text show?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered on Monday, Tuesday from 6:30 PM to 9:20 PM?
What is the name of the advanced genetics course taught by Brasier in 03730 section?
 What is the focus of the work described in the text?
 What does the vocal tract model combine into a single term?
When is the 'Acting for Business' class held by Bevins D?
 What sentiment transfer is showcased in Example (f)?
 What are some forms of corrosion that prestressed tendons may experience?
What is the location of Instructor TBA BB?
Where is Kravitz, Kaufman's Independent Teaching Experience class being held?
What are the days and times that Independent Study 0-12 A3 TBA DNM DNM is offered?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the additional learning outcomes for students electing to complete the Systems concentration?
What time did Men's Tennis start against Denison on Sunday, March 31?
What city does the author Townes B live in?
At what time does Reis' Independent Study in Computer Science start?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What is the course code for 'Solid State Physics'?
 What is the purpose of using pointwise mutual information (PMI) analysis in the context of a Language Model (LLM)?
What is the name of the course taught by Brasier in Bioinformatics Data Integration Practicum?
 What are the inputs required for the algorithm in the text to perform unsupervised domain adaptation?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the course 'Network Defense'?
What is the course title of the special topic class that meets on TR from 12:30PM to 01:50PM in room ANS C02?
What are the names of the three people mentioned in this text who have a Master's degree?
What is the title of the course offered by Lugo-Martinez?
Who is Brown and what are his/her scheduled events?
Who said 'I'm going to create computer science departments, and I’m basically going to do it by spending a lot of money.'?
What are the instructors' names for each course mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times when Mcgowan is teaching Interdisciplinary Independent Study at OFF CAMPUS Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times of the Costume Production course?
What kind of support does the Student Academic Success Center offer for International Teaching Assistants (ITAs)?
 What are the two sets of probability distributions that the sequence is mapped to?
Which option is a traditional way of sharing content?
When and where is the class 'Production Prep: SOM 3: Dramaturgy B' held?
 What is the purpose of using tensor decompositions in the E2E model?
What are the names of the three undergraduate seminars mentioned in this text?
What information can students find on the Carnegie Mellon University Dining Service website?
Where is the event taking place?
What are the topics discussed in sections 6.14 to 6.17 of the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the names of the two preparation shows in this text?
What is the location of Physical Education 69004?
What was the final score of the game played at Brandeis University during UAA Round Robin #3?
 What set of questions is used in the out-of-domain pre-training step for DST?
What is the name of the course for Production Management?
What are the names of the courses that start at 09:30 AM on Monday, Wednesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How many permutation analyses were performed to verify the model?
 Why does AE outperform other compression methods in the experiments?
What was incorporated into SCS from the Information Technology Center?
 What is the ratio of sequence lengths mentioned in the experiments?
 What is the NDCG@100 value for the PinSage model?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the title and publication date of the paper by C. Wang and colleagues focused on a large-scale multilingual speech corpus?
What is the course title of Automated Science Capstone II taught by Kangas?
 What type of metric is introduced to measure the success rate of the agent in outdoor navigation?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
What is the course code for Infinite Rooms: Photography and Installation?
Where and when does 'Designing Human Centered Software D' take place?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Who teaches the Internet Services course?
What is the course code for Physics II for Biological Sciences and Chemistry Students?
Who is teaching what subject at which location, time, and duration?
What were the Tartans' rankings at Guy & Jeanne Kuhn Invitational 'B' Team and NCAA Preview?
What was the reason behind the change in CMU's curriculum?
When does Language Diversity & Cultural Identity take place?
What is the name of the course that starts at 08:15 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room TEP 2111?
Where can students and affiliates find more information about student and affiliate ID cards?
When and where does Harmony I take place?
What is the course code for Structure and Function of the Human Body: A?
Who are the instructors for independent study 1-12 in Instructor?
What are the teaching times and location for Foundations: Risk, Agency, Failure (60101) and who teaches it?
Who manages the conference travel funding opportunity provided by GSA and the Provost’s Office for students?
 What scoring method is used to compute student scores and teacher scores?
Who are the instructors of each course in the passage?
What is the name of the class that starts at 03:30 PM and ends at 04:50 PM?
What does 'TBA' stand for in the text?
 What is the model also capable of, besides novel image generation, according to the text?
What are the names of the buildings where Garg H, Lin J, Feng K, Newman M, Chiu N, Yang O, Jiang P, Yu R, Xu S teach their courses?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Foundations of Causal Inference and Modern Causal Inference?
What is the name of the course that starts on Monday at 3:30 PM in room GHC 4215?
What is the course name for TR 02:00PM - 03:20PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches Language Enrichment in Pittsburgh?
What resources are available to help students find employment opportunities after completing an internship?
What is the course code for AI in Business Modeling taught by Farag in San Jose, California?
What is the location of Severnini in the text?
Who should contact if they reach this page in error?
What is the name of the institution that hosted the Tartans on October 20, 2023?
Who is the target audience for the Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores (PDEEC)?
What is the course name for Clarke's classes in DH A325?
What is the statute of limitations for Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
Who has the discretion to approve changes to final grades?
What does the Office of International Education (OIE) do, as mentioned in section A.1.9?
 Why were different prompts needed to attack ChatGPT compared to experiments on open-source models?
What is the process for employment eligibility verification at CMU?
Does the LTI cover student health insurance for all students regardless of their funding situation?
At what time does Eastern Europe: Society and Culture take place?
What is the location of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the degree discussed in section 1.1?
How many athletes are from California in the text?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at MM A14 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Why is careful tuning of separate target sparsities required in the method?
When and where is Design for Digital Systems taught?
Where is Special Topics in HCI: Fairness, Accountability, Transparency, and Ethics in Sociotechnical held?
Where and when does Game Theoretic Probability, Statistics and Learning take place?
What is the course code for Software Structures for User Interfaces?
Who are the speakers for the fourth event?
What format do I use to enter my GPA and college/university point system?
 What is the evaluation framework used for testing the system described in the text?
 According to the text, what kind of parses have shown to be beneficial for Information Extraction (IE)?
Who are the instructors for 'E-Commerce Tech, Machine Learning, Analytics, & Bots' course?
What is the website URL for the Language Technologies Institute?
Is there a specific date mentioned in the text for when this handbook was last revised?
What are the course codes for Plaut's Language and Thought and Data Science classes?
How does the Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete Alumni Mentoring Program help current student-athletes?
What are the days and times when Developing as a Leader is being offered?
When and where are the lighting design classes held?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Programming Usable Interfaces: Advanced PUI Lab?
 Where was the Seventh Arabic Natural Language Processing Workshop held?
 What options are available for selection in the evaluation process?
Who are the instructors for Instructor TBA S's course?
 What decoding parameters were selected for the analysis of the stories?
 What is the role of the multi-path supernet in GLoRA?
What are the days and times of Chorus?
What are the days and times of the 'Introduction to Modern Chemistry I' course offered by Vuocolo?
What are the topics covered in Managing Across Cultures?
 What is the purpose of the movement described in the virtual experiment?
 What is the primary learning tool mentioned in the text?
What is the main idea of Professor's research?
Why do LTI PhD students have to complete an oral presentation each year?
What is included in the Division of Student Affairs?
What is Daphne Ippolito's position at the institution?
What does 'WEH' stand for in WEH 5201?
What is the course name and time for ICT Professional Development Seminar?
What is the name of the institution where the student can take Independent Study in Music Entrepreneurship?
Where and when does the 'Master of Science Research' course meet?
What is the win-loss streak for all games of the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
Where is the location of the CDPC at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors for the 'Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop' course at DH 1117 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where is Data Analytics for Organizational Impacts being offered?
How do graduate students apply for Emergency Student Loan?
 What kind of inputs are used for the simulation in the WavLM model?
Who are the instructors for the course 36997: Practicum in Statistics?
What are the days, times, and locations for course 15645 Database Systems?
What does the term 'open elective' mean in this context?
How many possible states does this simple program have?
What is the course title and instructor for class HBH 1007 listed on Tuesday?
What kind of resources does section 6.10 cover according to the text?
What is the name of the cause that Carnegie Mellon Football volunteered for recently?
Who is the instructor for Directed Study course?
What are the names of Kravitz and Kaufman's two classes?
What are the course codes for GHC 5223 and DH 2302?
Who is teaching the C class?
 What does Table 2 show about fine-tuning Whisper?
What is the role of Carnegie Mellon University in maintaining community integrity?
What is the name of the instructor for Perception course?
Who is the instructor for Liginlal's Blockchain Applications course?
What are the names of the instructors for both courses mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the event listed at the end of this text?
Where can one find more information about Eberly Center's support for graduate students?
 What are the factors considered in the Quality vs. latency table?
What is the purpose of defining undergraduate and graduate grading standards?
 What are the three evaluation metrics presented in the text to compare the performance of different models?
What is the course code for Writing for the Professions offered by Gordon?
Where is the course 'Engineering the Materials of the Future' held?
How many provers are sufficient to prove all of NP with zero knowledge according to Shafi and Ben-Or, Kilian, Wigderson's research?
What is the name of the department where Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Teaching Practicum 3.0 is offered?
 What is EuroParl and what was it initially introduced for?
When and where does Get Career Ready: Unlocking Pathways to Success take place?
What are the names of the instructors who teach Comprehensive Review (Analysis) and Graduate Composition Project?
Where does Johnson's talk take place?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Modern Languages department at the University of Pittsburgh?
What qualities does Campbell believe are important for someone like Berliner who refuses to take an easier path?
What additional guidance is provided for students in the Master's Degree Completion and Certification?
What is the course name for Vadlamudi B?
What are the names of the instructors for Machine Learning in Production Software Engineering?
 What is the effect of a higher temperature in the contrastive objective?
What is the name of the instructor for Business Communications class?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Dramaturgy?
When did computing come to CMU and GSIA?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Do applicants need to submit GRE scores when applying to the MCDS program?
Where and when is the 'Business of Music' class held?
Who are the instructors for Supplementary Readings 3-12 A and History Prospectus 5-36 A?
What is 'Elective Studio (Violin)'?
How can students register for CMU Alert?
What is the purpose of the text?
 What clinical spectrum is associated with individuals with de novo EBF3 variants or deletions?
How should students plan their Independent Studies so that they can be completed within a single semester?
What does the School of Computer Science require for all Ph.D. applications?
What are the days and times of Anderson and Sleator's Algorithm Design and Analysis course?
What is the course code for Professional Communication in Engineering?
What is the location of Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the instructors for Cloud Infrastructure and Services course?
Where is the location of Advanced Editing & Publishing course?
When and where does Speech I take place in PCA A41?
What is the course title of the class that takes place in GHC 4215 at 2:00 PM on Tuesdays?
What are the names of the two rooms where classes will be held in this schedule that start at 9:30 AM?
What is the role of the Program Director when it comes to changing advisors?
What is the purpose of the academic calendar for adding, dropping, or withdrawing from courses?
What is the academic program of Shikhar Agnihotri?
How can students register for weekly Peer Tutoring appointments?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep for Want to be a Mother?
What are the days and times of the Measure and Integration class?
Where and when is the Cyber Risk Modeling course held?
What is the status for international students who are considering completing their degree requirements early?
Who are the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 4?
 What was the near-surface wind direction in Beijing during PE1?
What are the locations of the courses mentioned in the text?
What sport is being played in the text?
 According to the provided information, what should the agent do after issuing the stop action?
 What is the difference between the revision mode and the fixed mode in low-latency speech translation?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for HBH 1002 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What time does Monte Carlo Methods and Applications start? Who are the professors teaching this subject?
 What improvements in test accuracy were observed at the pruning ratio of 0.1 and 0.2?
Why did Palay suggest applying B* to chess?
What are the implications of taking a Formal Leave of Absence?
What are the names of the courses listed in alphabetical order?
What award did Simon and Newell receive in 1975 for their work in artificial intelligence?
What should students do if they have been impacted by any of the issues mentioned in the text?
What are the instructors' names for each course in this schedule?
 How does the proposed BASS model handle semantic representations?
What is the Statute of Limitations in Extended or Longer-than-Standard Completion?
What is Peer Tutoring at CMU?
What are the validity periods for TOEFL, IELTS or Duolingo test scores?
What is the last name of the first author listed?
What are the names of the two classes taught by Professor Pukinskis?
What is the course code and title of Stagecraft Video & Media?
How many games did they win in conference play?
 How does SAMA reduce computational burden in meta learning programs?
What are the days and times of Production Management C class?
Who are the performers in the Major Studio (Voice) class?
Where and when does Abraham's Arab Culture Through Dialogues, Film, and Literature class take place?
Who are the research areas of David Mortensen?
What are the class times and location of 'Managing Digital Business' course?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What is the name of the instructor at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Piano BA?
What do I need to know about taking the Duolingo test?
Who teaches Directed Study in Literary and Cultural Studies?
Who was Carnegie Mellon playing in their fourth and last final match?
 How are audio inputs simulated for the WavLM model?
 What is the purpose of using the joint CTC-attention training in the model architecture?
Where can graduate students find enrollment information about Domestic Partner Registration and Parental Accommodations?
What is the name of the sport mentioned in this text?
What are the time slots for Costume Design?
What are the requirements for transferring into the MIIS program?
What was the date when Megan Matsko wrote about her perspective on basketball evolving?
What are the names of the courses that teach Costume Production, Lighting Design, and Costume Production?
What are the days and times of the instructor's classes?
What are the two courses being offered at 05:00PM - 08:00PM on HL A1?
When and where does Independent Study: Breadth 1-48 take place?
How long does it take to complete the Professional Preparation Track?
What are the main categories of student awards offered by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
Who are the main categories of people that can be found at this institute according to the menu options provided?
When did Women's Swimming and Diving compete at NCAA Championships?
Who are the authors of this text?
 What evaluation results are presented in Table 1 regarding the use of the PAAP Loss compared with noisy audios?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
Who is the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Recital/Project and Artist Diploma Thesis?
What is the title of Chodos's class and what time does it start?
 What toolkits are mentioned in the text that have efficient implementations for various speech recognition models?
What is the purpose of the University Computing Policy?
When does the Production Prep for Sound Design start?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the course Introduction to Computer Systems?
What are the class times for Stage Management with Mr. Burns?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at CFA 214?
What is the name of the course that focuses on Comprehensive Review for graduate students?
 What is the atmospheric heating term defined as?
What is the main topic of this research paper?
What are the locations and times of all classes listed in this text?
 What phenotypic effects on speech are reported for SLC3A1?
What are the class names and instructors for the classes held on Tuesday at 2:00 PM?
What is the role of Graduate Student Assembly in improving the graduate student experience at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title and instructor's name for the class with course code '47835'?
What is the course code for Evidence-Based Education Design 9,12?
What are the course codes and titles for the two Behavioral Economics Capstone courses?
At what time does Alexis G teach their class?
Who is the instructor for Phd Internship VAR?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Production Prep: Ottone in Villa?
 What does SCCL combine to learn features from text?
What is the URL for the Dining Service website?
What is the title of Doctoral Thesis Research according to this text?
What is the location of University Police?
What is the name of the class that teaches auditioning skills?
Who teaches Environmental Engineering Lab: TBA A T 03:30PM 04:50PM PH 107E?
What is the purpose of the MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What is the course code for the last mentioned course?
What is the name of the conference that Carnegie Mellon Football belongs to?
What are the timings of Reynolds Z's class (UTR) in Doha, Qatar?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Which letter represents the first name of the author Reinhart O?
What is the significance of their research on pseudorandom number generators?
Who are the affiliated faculty at Language Technologies Institute?
Who is the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Saxophone NB?
 What is XFACT?
When was the match between Carnegie Mellon and WashU held?
What is the duration of Independent Study in Supervised Teaching?
How many classes are listed in this text?
 Why is CP decomposition difficult to adjust with flexible parameter sizes?
Where is the Social & Decision Sciences 88051 Study Abroad located?
When should students consult with their academic advisors regarding the birth of a child?
 What is the name of the toolkit introduced by S. Watanabe and team in 2018 for end-to-end speech processing?
What are the course names for each of these courses?
 What percentage of the pretraining data consisted of Arabic data for the model Jais?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday?
How many authors are there in total?
What is the name of the teacher who teaches MWF 09:00 AM - 09:50 AM in room DH 2122?
What is the duration of each class?
What are the days and times for the courses offered at SH 234?
 What is the focus of the study by Saradjian et al. (2008)?
Where is the online version of the annual campus security and fire safety report available?
What is the office location of Jamie Callan?
 Who are some of the lab members and faculty mentioned in the text for their contributions?
 What is the intent distribution percentage for the E-commerce website according to Figure 6?
What does the MLT program immerses students in?
What are the three courses being offered in the given time slot on Wednesday?
On what day does the text mention a class at 4:00 PM?
How many students are listed for each instrument in Major Studio?
What is the title of the course that starts at 6:30 PM and ends at 10:30 PM on Tuesday, Thursday?
What is the requirement for completing an undergraduate research project in the Language Technologies Concentration?
Where can a student take Independent Study in Supervised Teaching?
What is the name of the resource mentioned in section 6.11 for family and dependents?
How can students begin the process for receiving accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many students are listed in this text for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Voice AE?
What is the name of the player with jersey number 15 who plays as a power forward?
When is the Production Prep: Gloria session for Carnegie Scenic scheduled to take place?
What is the position of player number [Number] on the team?
What is the location of Honors Modern Biology Lec 2 in Doha, Qatar?
What videogame allows players to fold and shift RNA molecules?
What is the name of the course taught by Mccarthy and Sooriamurthi in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania at 95827?
What is the course title of Severnini's courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
 What is the purpose of the denormalization module in the US2ST architecture?
What are the class timings for Additive Manufacturing Laboratory?
What is the location of Al Masaeed's class 'Podcasting: Language and Culture Through Storytelling'?
What is the course title for the lecture held on Tuesday at 02:00PM-03:50PM?
When does Translation Workshop 1 take place?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Chan 06713?
What is the class name and day for the class that meets at DH 1209 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When is the Applied Cell and Molecular Biology class held?
What happens to a student's enrollment status when they take a Short-Term Accommodation?
What is the name of the school that Alyssa Hoffman attends?
How long can continued academic stipend funding be extended for a student's absence longer than six weeks?
What are the days and times of the 'Modern Chemistry I' course offered by Vuocolo?
Where can university policies be found according to the given text?
What are the course codes and their respective locations for Computer Architecture and Systems, Neuromorphic Computer Architecture & Processor Design, Autonomous Driving, Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems, Wireless Networks and Applications, Estimation, Detection and Learning, and Information Theory Measures for Artificial and Natural Intelligence Systems?
What city does the text mention as the location for research in psychology?
When and where does Undergraduate Research take place?
How do students log on to SIO?
What are the names of these three StuCo courses?
What is the significance of the word 'Home' in the text?
What is the name of the instructor for the event listed as 57932?
What is the main purpose of exploring how to use typology and universals in developing language technologies?
What are the locations of the instructors listed in this table?
What are the topics covered in the Deep Generative Modeling course?
 What technique involves generating new labels equivalent to soft or hard pseudo-labels estimated by the model?
Who is the tallest player on the team?
Why was Pnueli's logic beneficial to computer system verification?
What is the course name and location for Advanced Derivative Models I2 M 05:00PM - 08:00PM?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What does the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) do for students?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What is the location of the Prototyping Lab I: Products class?
Who is responsible for Directing A at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What can be used as a reference for the evaluation and identification of Schisandra chinensis germplasm resources?
 What does term matching criteria M(qi, dj) indicate?
At what time does Classical Latin: Rome's Cultural and Linguistic Legacy take place?
What time does the Dramaturgy Internship start at?
 What are some automatic metrics proposed for evaluating generated text?
 What is the purpose of incorporating the response length as an auxiliary penalizing factor?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Topics in Consumer Behavior course?
What is the time and location of all classes taught by Lacomis?
 What distinguishes the HomeRobot benchmark from other benchmarks mentioned in the text?
When was the last revision date for this student handbook?
 How does the BASS model update neural network parameters?
What are the names of the lecturers for course 12.0 Lec TR 02:00PM in BH A36?
Where was the event held?
What are the goals of the Tartan Athletics Club?
 What is one benefit of using human feedback to improve model behavior?
Do students need LTI approval for fully-funded external fellowships like Microsoft Research Fellowship?
What are the names of the sections for this course?
Which class is about 'Genome Editing: Past, Present, and Future'?
What resources are available to students for understanding community expectations at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the impact of different question generation approaches according to Table 3?
What are the names of the buildings where Kohlbrenner will be teaching his classes?
 In which journal was the Quality-of-Life Assessment after Major Extremity Trauma presented at a symposium in Kissimmee, FL?
What is the name of the organization that Reddy co-founded and served as its President from 1987 to 1989?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
What is the course code for 'Generative AI'?
What is the name of the course taught by Ndashimye on B3 TR?
What is the class name and day for the class that meets at HOA 107 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the deadline to submit applications and supporting documentation for fall admission to any of LTI's graduate programs?
What are the days of the week when Li teaches a class?
What are the names of the courses taught by Pennsylvania Kaestner?
Who are the students mentioned with their initials only?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Mondays?
How many games did Carnegie Mellon win during the fall semester?
What is the name of the high school that Francis Parker attends?
What are the class timings for 'Pennsylvania Larocca 57105 Elective Studio (Jazz Piano I Class)'?
What is the title of Aditya's Distinguished Lecture?
 Which domains, when removed, lead to the greatest decrease in toxicity metrics?
How many students are in the Major Studio (Composition) group?
What is the location of Moon F's elective studio?
What is the name of the course at CFA ACH from 7:30 PM to 9:20 PM?
 What technique was used to characterize the key aroma volatile compounds in the grape varieties?
Who teaches the Painting for the Theatrical Designer course?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered in the schedule?
What is the location of the Statistical Methods in Health Sciences course?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Ryan at 12:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
What are ID cards used for according to the student handbook?
What is the name of the course taught by Struble?
What is SIO in this context?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
What services are available in the University Center for students?
What are the programs that have a rolling admission?
 How many different cases of data usage were investigated for multilingual TTS in the study?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Can other departments intercede with MCDS students to secure seats in other courses?
What are the course codes and titles for the two courses offered at CMU REMOTE in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where can students find information about University Libraries according to chapter 6?
What are the names of the people who will be working on costume production?
What are the names of the courses mentioned in this text that start at 10:30 AM on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
What is the name of the program offered in this handbook?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered by Shamos?
What are the two courses being offered at 12:00PM - 03:00PM on HL A10?
How many students are listed as having a 9.0 grade in the Major Studio program for Flute, Oboe and Bassoon?
 What types of approaches are mentioned in the text for enhancing lexical vocabularies?
What should I provide as my current address?
Who is the instructor for the Production Prep: Mr. Burns: Lighting Design class?
 What is the key idea behind the InPars approach mentioned in the text?
 What is the purpose of conducting virtual tomography experiments in this study?
What is the location and time of Tonguz's lecture for Advanced Probability & Statistics for Engineers?
What happens if a student fails to maintain an average QPA of at least 3.0 for courses and projects used to satisfy degree requirements?
Who are the people involved in Carnegie Scenic for A Little Night Music?
Where and when is the 'Advanced Synthesis Options Studio II' class held?
Where is Tyler Tackage from?
Where is the search form located on this website?
 What is the proposed method to speed up inference in diffusion-based models?
What is the name of the class that focuses on repertoire analysis for contemporary musical theatre?
What is the rationale behind granting transfer credit or issuing course exemptions?
Where and when does Undergraduate Internship take place?
Who are the instructors for each class listed in the text?
What kind of applications are students expected to develop using AI?
When does the course with the course code 10500 take place?
What are the days and times that Peduto FF's class meets?
What services does The HUB provide for students?
 What does the second method described to overcome errors involve in the text?
Who is the instructor for 'Advanced Speech Techniques'?
What is the course code for Spain: Language and Culture?
What is the course code for Shi's Foundations of Blockchains class?
What are the days and times for Peng's CSD PhD Elective class?
Who is the instructor at BC TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course taught by Xue?
Can a course satisfy requirements in two degree programs?
How many units must a student take to attain the Standard MIIS degree?
Where are lectures B and D on Algorithm Design and Analysis held?
When does the 'Dramaturgy' class take place?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
 Who are the authors of the paper on CSTR VCTK Corpus for CSTR Voice Cloning Toolkit?
What is the course code for Advanced Interaction Design offered on Monday at 08:00 AM?
What is the purpose of providing computers to MS students according to the text?
Who must be consulted when scheduling the paid vacation for these students?
What are the topics covered in Laboratory Methods for Computational Biologists?
 How does the corrosion of prestressed beams differ from the corrosion of pre-tensioned rebars?
Who are the instructors for S at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the instructors for 79207 Asian American History through the Novel and 79245 Capitalism and Individualism in American Culture?
What is the phone number of the institute mentioned in the text?
What awards and honors has Shafi Goldwasser received?
What is required to receive an MCDS degree?
What is the address of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is Mona Diab's role?
What was the result of the game between Tartans and UChicago?
 What is the formula for computing the alignment P (At,u|x)?
 How does the anchor plate move relative to the concrete in response to stress changes?
What is the name of the company that owns and operates this online store?
Who scored a career-high in the game against Brandeis?
What is the purpose of the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE)?
What are the course codes and titles of the two courses offered by Hinkelman?
What is the purpose of the Student Emergency Support Funding process managed by the Office of the Dean of Students?
Why did faculty and staff start running Mach-based operating systems on their own computers?
 What does the approach proposed in the paper treat claim extraction as a process guided by?
What department(s) does Graham Neubig belong to?
What is the main objective of the Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores (PDEEC)?
What are the names of the courses being taught in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the Academic Calendar located?
What are the names of the courses taught by Rohrer and Pistorius?
 What is the difference between the highest and lowest numbers in the sequence: 8.4, 37.2, 19.6, 26.6, 10.6?
When was the last update on Women's Tennis in the news before October 14, 2023?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses taught by Beckwith in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What was the purpose of the real-world system presented in the Interspeech 2013 conference?
What is the name of the teacher teaching Intermediate Arabic II?
What is the name of Alexander Hauptmann's department?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the 'Thesis Seminar' course that starts at 11:00 AM on Mondays in room MM 409?
 How many folds were used in the cross-validation strategy?
Who are the athletes mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes and their respective titles for the courses offered on Monday and Wednesday at HBH 1007?
How many events are there in total?
What is the ethical responsibility of students when presenting any creative or research work?
Where do these courses take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When does Anime - Visual Interplay between Japan and the World take place?
What are the course codes for the two senior thesis courses?
 What key improvement did the framework successully apply to full-context encoders?
What are some additional resources provided by Enrollment & Finances regarding tuition payments and financial aid?
What is the course code for 'Music History II'?
 What is the effectiveness of investing in few-shot in-language task-specific examples?
When is Zhao's Special Topics: Linear Control Systems class held?
How many teams are participating in the fifth meet of the season?
How is the QPA calculated for courses and projects used to satisfy degree requirements?
How does Language Support help students who are non-native English speakers develop fluency?
Where was Dabbala Rajagopal (Raj) Reddy awarded his doctorate?
 What are the two common algorithms for finding a high-probability translation in NMT systems?
What should graduate students do if they find themselves in need of immediate funds for emergency situations?
What are the course codes for the two Technical Management classes?
What is the course topic for each of the three courses mentioned in the text?
 What is the purpose of augmenting language models with retrieval components?
Where can I find information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC Bank, fitness rooms and schedules, retail stores, scheduling University Center space, the public prayer room, student organizations and the Wright-Rogal Chapel?
What are the credits for Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing: 9.0?
What is Phillips teaching at 12:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
 What approach does the system in the second paper use for ASR and NLU?
What are the course codes for Shaping Time in Performance and Consumer Driven Composition for Contemporary Media?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:20 PM?
What happens if a Teaching Assistantship is not pre-approved by the Program Coordinator?
What is the source of information where students can find the current tuition rates?
Where can students find information about mailing, printing, and copying services at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Stehlik?
How can graduate students reach the ROTC and Veteran Affairs Coordinator at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times for Risteski's Deep Learning Systems: Algorithms and Implementation course?
 What are the four major modifications to Meta-Weight-Net (MWN) suggested in the text?
What is the course code for Accelerate Leadership?
In what time slot are Lighting Design and Sound being held?
What is the location of the Software Engineering Practicum Internship?
Where can students find dining location hours and menus?
Where will Chamber Music: Guitar be held?
 What analysis is conducted in the TDT Emission Analysis section?
 How many V100-32GB GPUs were used for training the reader model FiE?
What is the topic of the article?
Which university did Dr. Clarke become a University Professor in?
Who is teaching Seminar in Music Education?
What is the name of the organization that offers PhD Reading and Research in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the significance of this text?
Who are the instructors for independent study 1-12 in Caulkins?
Where is the classroom located for Introduction to Philosophy (80100) Lecture 2 on Tuesday and Thursday at 11:00 AM?
What are the course codes for GHC 5226 and PH A18B?
 What are the six NLP tasks covered by GlobalBench?
How does the Office of the Dean of Students collaborate with other offices and organizations?
What is the location of BXA Intercollege Degree Programs?
What is the purpose of referring to department-specific information in this handbook according to the text?
What are the topics discussed in 'The Mirror of Technology: Biases in Computation & Cognition' seminar?
Where can students find information about the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs according to the text?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
When is 'Voice for the Stage III' held?
Where can students find information about the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course 'Everyday Learning: Designing Learning Experiences in Times of Unrest & Uncertainty' about?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
When did Instituto Superior Técnico start offering a doctorate degree in Electrotechnical and Computing Engineering?
What are the names of the individuals listed under the department 'Instructor TBA Z'?
 What does FA denote in the text?
What are the course codes for Dietrich College's Applied Quantitative Social Science II and Humanities Scholars Senior Research Seminar?
What is the name of Mitchell and Pessoa's course at CMB 3044?
What is the location of the course taught by Culyba?
When and where does Critical Analysis of Policy Research take place?
 What are some potential research questions inspired by Prompt2Model?
What are the topics of the courses offered on Thursday at 9:30 AM?
How can students schedule University Center space for their student organizations or other campus events?
Where can spouses and partners of graduate students get information about domestic partner registration?
Where is the search form located on this website?
When and where will Rousseau's session on Organizational Ethics be held?
What is the location of the third event listed in the text?
What is the origin of tartan fabric?
Where can students find instructions on how to order transcripts at Carnegie Mellon University?
Why does every one of those sequences, no matter how infrequently executed, must be correct?
How can students get involved in undergraduate research and honors thesis at the university's School of Computer Science?
When does News Writing take place?
What instrument does van der Sloot teach in the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)?
Where can students find more information about Campus Wellness?
What is the name of the award given to Daniel Fried?
 How many training conversations are there in total for the task?
What are the names of the courses taught by the students in this list?
What is the minimum TOEFL score required for successful applicants to MCDS?
 How does the study differentiate itself from previous works in recovering face from voice?
 Why do the authors attribute the lower performance on MOCHA-TIMIT compared to HPRC for all models?
At what time does the 'Graduate Reading and Research' course start?
Where is the research conducted?
Where can students find more information about Academic Integrity?
What is the name of the class taught by Steinfeld and where is it held?
What are the course codes for Special Topics in French & Francophone Studies and Modern Languages Undergraduate Internship?
 What is the purpose of the proposed BASS method?
What are the additive terms to the Agreement Carnegie Mellon Doctoral Program in Language and Information Technology?
How can international students obtain an I-20 form?
 How many unique papers were evaluated by the participants?
What are the three production preparation classes mentioned in this text?
Who teaches 'Bioorganic Chemistry: Peptides, Proteins and Combinatorial Chemistry'?
What are the two campuses mentioned in the text?
What is the course code of Teaching Methodologies for the Foreign Language Classroom II: 9.0?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Physics I for Science Students'?
What are the names of the teachers who will be teaching at TEP 2610 on Friday?
What should be done to copy otherwise, republish, post on servers, or redistribute to lists?
What kind of sessions did Lisa Murphy from Women's Basketball attend?
What are the class names and their respective instructors for the classes held on Wednesday at MM 215 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code and title of Production Prep: New Works Dramatic Writing M?
What is the name of the person who teaches R?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What is the purpose of Student ID Cards?
How can students apply their knowledge in the Language Technologies minor?
What are the days and times for Learning Media Design?
What is Shafi Goldwasser's citation for receiving the ACM Turing Award?
Which professor is teaching Graduate Reading and Research at TBA on DNM days in room BH 336B?
Where are the classes held for 'Principles of Computing'?
What is the topic of the text?
 What are some of the techniques mentioned that are incorporated in scanning tomography experiments?
What is the current win-loss streak for neutral games of the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
Who teaches Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): French Horn OA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the time slots when there is no class for Production Prep: Mr. Burns?
What is a cross-registration program?
Who are the instructors of Twigg's independent study?
What event did Durdaller win Athlete of the Week in?
When did Berliner join CMU's Computer Science Department?
What are the names of the people listed in the text?
What are the expectations regarding teaching requirements mentioned in this text?
 How do cultural values, history, and other factors influence the differences in figurative expressions used in different languages?
When does the 'Chemical Thermodynamics' class take place?
 How does the proposed model achieve strong performance on image generation?
What are the days and times of Murshid's class?
 What is the purpose of Genetic Improvement in the context of Android app development?
 How are the results of the experiments reported?
Who is the author of 'The Kiltie Band'?
When and where is Fundamentals of Computational Design held?
 Who disclaims responsibility for any injury resulting from the ideas, methods, instructions, or products referred to in the content?
How did Berliner's career path change due to a conversation with a classmate who worked at the Naval Research Lab?
What are the course codes for the two classes starting at 9.0 A TR?
What is the location of Hertz Medical Management School?
What services does the Office of Housing and Dining Services provide for graduate students?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
 What does PPV represent in the text?
What happens if all supporting documents do not arrive by the deadline?
What are the topics covered in the course 'Special Topics in HCI: Fairness, Accountability, Transparency, and Ethics in Sociotechnical'?
What are the three main areas that Yonatan Bisk's work falls into?
What position does Megan Matsko play on the Tartans?
What is the course code for Practice Teaching (Elementary)?
What is the course being offered by instructor Sahoo?
What is the title of the course taught by Mcgowan at 9:30 AM on Friday?
What are the Master's Programs in Language Technologies?
 What is the pairwise diversity loss LP D CGKD defined as?
How can a student appeal their final grades at this university?
What are the names of the three independent studies offered by Curtis Colwell?
What kind of coursework do students construct in consultation with their academic advisor?
How many credits are offered in Internship in Chemical Engineering?
What are the time slots for Raponi's course 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Voice AC'?
Who teaches the 'Networking and the Internet' course?
Who is Vania Daly?
What is the latest news from LTI?
What are the course codes for Deep Learning Systems: Algorithms and Implementation, Probabilistic Graphical Models?
What are the guidelines provided by LTI Academic Policies?
Who is responsible for the 'Love and Money' Project Management course that starts at 6:30 PM on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday?
Who are the faculty members mentioned in this text?
 What is the purpose of the code implementations in Figure 5?
What should students do to identify and reach out to the library liaison in their field?
What was the reason behind Carnegie Mellon's decision to adopt a Scottish terrier as their official mascot?
What is the title of the class that has no specific time or location listed?
What is the phone number for Language Technologies Institute?
What was the significance of Thompson's paper in 1982?
What is the function of the University Center in Carnegie Mellon's campus?
What does 'confidential consultation services' mean?
How many hours does MITS Capstone Project course last at Institute for Politics and Strategy?
What are the days, times, and location for the course 'MSE'?
What is the location of the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Saxophone NB?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for classes HBH 1202, Goranson B2, and Rao?
 What were some reasons cited for the lack of environmental concern in NLP research?
 Which datasets were used to examine the effectiveness of KALE?
What is the purpose of the academic integrity policy for doctoral students?
Who are the two people that taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and their names start with 'Q' and 'V', respectively?
What is the course code for Beginning Piano Practicum I?
What are the instructors for the courses listed in Doha, Qatar?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Theory 3-9 F?
 What model did InPars-Light use compared to the proprietary GPT-3 model?
Where was Men's Golf played at Jekyll island Collegiate?
Where did Lucas Pavlounis attend high school?
Who teaches the 'Intermediate Studio: Story Development for Animation' course?
What are the course codes for User-Centered Research and Evaluation classes?
Can I submit an expired TOEFL if my undergraduate degree and master's degree are from a non-U.S. institution?
Where does English Diction take place?
What services does the University Libraries offer?
What kind of programs does Carnegie Mellon University offer for transgender and non-binary students?
What is the title of the production being prepared for in this schedule?
What is the name of the elective studio that Curtin teaches at Elective Studio 3-9 A TBA TBA?
 What kind of models does Prompt2Model deliver?
What are the dimensions that the Center for Student Diversity &amp; Inclusion enhances at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the main challenge on the source side while translating scientific talks?
What was the location of Tartan's game against Westminster (Pa.) on November 4th?
 What impact did turn embeddings have on model performance?
What are students advised to do before signing any IP agreements during an external internship?
What is the email address of Amber Vivis?
What is the instructor's name in Acting for Non-Majors?
What kind of training does the library offer in data management?
Where can students find information about these supplemental offerings?
What is the name of the class that meets on Tuesday from 02:00PM-03:20PM in room HBH 1006?
What is the name of the program mentioned in the text that allows us to exploit language data?
 Why are three higher layers entirely removed for MHA in DPHuBERT?
What are the names of the courses offered under Scenic Design (E)?
 What property is used to approximate F(f_k)F(f_k)*?
 What is the DOI of the article?
 According to some recent work, what does the success of AI Feedback hint at?
Where was the UAA Championships held?
What were some of the research areas that Shaw was involved with after joining the faculty?
How should students register for Parental Accommodations?
 What is the maximum possible total score a model can achieve in the evaluations discussed?
Who scored a goal at Brandeis on 10-3-15?
What is the course name and number for class G W 07:00PM 07:50PM?
How many master's degree students were enrolled in SCS by fall 2013?
 Which agent outperforms the BUTLER baseline according to the text?
What is the purpose of the MIIS Capstone Project?
 What specialized algorithm is compared with ORCA in Table 5?
 What is the justification provided in the text for restricting the focus to the RE task?
When and where is the course 'Introduction to Computational Physics' held?
What is the name of each class held on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the class timings for Masters Report?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Monday at 7:00 PM in Technology Strategy?
What is the course code for Laboratory I: Introduction to Chemical Analysis?
How does the mentoring program help alumni stay connected with the Tartan community?
What are the names of Johnston's classes?
What is the name of the initiative that CMU launched to improve energy efficiency and develop new, clean, affordable and sustainable energy sources?
What are the course codes for the courses mentioned in the text?
 What is the significance of building speaker-independent speech processing models with articulatory data?
What are the days and times when Financial and Managerial Accounting II is taught by Ytsma in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How have streaming RNN-T models approached endpointing?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Pennsylvania Gounaris?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the Clarinet, Bassoon, and Percussion studio performance classes?
 What observations were made from the experiments comparing SAMA-based data reweighting and label correction?
What are the dates and times of the classes listed in the text?
What are the course codes, instructors, and times for Engineering Privacy in Software (Goel 17735)?
 What is the Diversity value for the Boost model?
Where was the third meet held?
What is the purpose of the Facebook page mentioned in the text?
What are the weekly drop-in hours scheduled at the library during the academic year?
 According to the text, what is value pluralism?
What is the URL of the University Libraries website?
What is the course code of the Proposal Preparation and Peer Review course offered by Barth in TBA at 4:00 PM on Monday?
What is the name of the course that teaches about Music Entrepreneurship 3-9 A?
 What type of environment does WebArena provide to users?
What are the class timings for Double Bass Studio Performance Class 1.0 A M and Flute Studio Performance Class 1.0 A T?
Who are the other instructors mentioned in the text besides those already listed?
What are the names of the courses offered in this schedule?
Is there any specific eligibility criteria for domestic partner benefits at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How were strain gauges set up to monitor the strains of the concrete?
What are the class names and their respective course credits for Teaching Practicum, Professional Development, Thesis Research, and Dissertation Research?
 What is the purpose of metric meta-evaluation?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at each location and time?
What are the days, times, location, and instructors for class A3 MW 03:30PM - 04:50PM in HBH 1006?
Who is Robert Frederking and what are his roles at Language Technologies Institute?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this page?
 What is one potential application of phonetic word embeddings mentioned in the text?
What are elective courses in the School of Computer Science?
What is the course title of Introduction to Accounting?
What is the purpose of creating a collaborative environment according to this text?
 What method does ILL leverage for modeling the imprecise label information?
Who are the authors of the text 'Research in Psychology Practicum' and what is its topic?
 What is the volume and issue number of the paper on Group Normalization?
What are Dan Rodgers' titles and contact information in Men's Golf and Women's Golf?
Where is Musuraca's class being held?
What are the responsibilities of each department during Production Prep for Ottone in Villa (SOM 2)?
In which room is Ishizaki's Coding for Humanists class held in Pittsburgh?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Where was the UAA Indoor Championships held?
Which university's athletes were featured as Athletes of the Week on the Composite Calendar?
What does it mean when the final grades are rarely changed without the consent of the instructor who assigned the grade?
What are the names of the courses taught at CMR F205 on B3 TR?
 What does the study reveal about the correlation between AGR levels and the risk of death?
What is the course name for the lecture conducted by Gittis?
When did Women's Swimming and Diving compete at NCAA Championships?
What is the name of the PhD internship course that takes place on Tuesdays from 4:00 PM to 9:00 PM in room DNM DNM?
When does Thompson, Curtis, Story, Cardenes, Vosburgh perform?
What is the name of the course being offered at GHC 4215 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What approach is adopted for event extraction and relation extraction in the complex IE tasks?
What are the names of the people involved in Production Prep for each day of the week?
Where does Flanigan teach his class?
 What are the two modes for low-latency speech translation supported by the framework?
What is the name of the instructor for Elective Studio (Double Bass)?
 What is the highest value recorded for Afro-Asiatic languages?
How does a student's external employment/consulting experience benefit them in their studies and future career?
Who teaches the lecture of Microelectronic Circuits that starts at 11:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday?
What is the name of the course being taught by Boevers and Block at 11:00AM - 12:20PM on this day?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: TBA 8: Lighting Design I?
What happens if a doctoral candidate's defense date slips to the next semester?
What is the contact information provided in this text for further details about application procedures?
 What was the general trend observed regarding the effects of few-shot transfer for each language?
What are the names of the students in Undergraduate Research in Philosophy VAR A?
What are the names of the courses that start at TBA on different days?
Where is the MSR Independent Study taking place?
Where and when is the 'Security in Networked Systems' course held?
How can one get in touch with the university's media contacts for news and events purposes?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about bias, objectivity, and the media's role in politics?
When is Machine Learning in Production Software Engineering held?
What are the class times and locations for Wigginton B4?
What are the days and times for Affordable Housing Policy and Finance class?
Who is the director of Language Technologies Institute?
 What is used to visualize how entrainment changes with parameters in the text?
Name a self-paced lab that focuses on computational ethics.
When is Cultural Studies Elective - Graduate Level held on Fridays?
What is the instrument focus of the eighth music studies studio mentioned in the text?
 What is the main challenge in developing an end-to-end Im2Sp model?
How many courses can a student receive transfer credit for?
What are the days and times for IDeATe Portal: Introduction to Media Synthesis and Analysis in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the role of the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education in relation to graduate students?
 What do vqi and Eqi represent in the projection process for query term qi?
What is the Institution Code for submitting TOEFL scores?
 What do red dots indicate in the differential spectrum?
What are the dates and times of the Technology Strategy classes mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors for 15440 Distributed Systems?
When do these courses take place according to the given information?
What is the course code for Differential Equations?
What are the topics of Eppinger's classes?
 What is the range of random coordinate shifts added into LiDAR points with a probability of 0.5?
Where and when will Kwon present their talk?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's stance on diversity?
What are the contact details of Language Technologies Institute?
What are the course names and locations for the two Special Topics in Signal Processing classes?
How many different types of studies are mentioned under the subject area 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)'?
What is the title of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA on Friday?
When is Mr. Burns: Sound Design class held?
 What are the four initial crack angles studied in the text?
What is the name of the last class in the text?
 What are the four diverse tasks/datasets on which FLARE was evaluated according to the text?
Who is the instructor for Introduction to Conducting?
Where is Doha, Qatar located in relation to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Can students directly transfer from LTI's master’s program into its PhD program?
 What trick is applied to handle the issue of binary gates not being differentiable?
 What was the conclusion drawn regarding the relationship between AGR and overall survival in advanced NSCLC patients with anlotinib treatment?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
What are the days and times of Statistical Computing class?
At what time does Wahby's course start?
Where is Rashid's home originally?
What was the final standing of Tartans at the NCAA Championships?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for 73240 Intermediate Macroeconomics?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Dramaturgy: Internship', 'Concert Lighting Design', and 'Business of Acting & The Practice'?
What is the course code for Practice Teaching (Elementary)?
What was the overall record of Tartan Football team for 2023?
Where was the SUNY Geneseo Mike Woods Invitational held?
What is the current position of Rick Rashid according to Rich Draves?
What is the location of Strubell's office?
When and where are the classes being held?
What is additional info provided in Additional Info section of Master's Program in Language Technologies?
What is the name of Dunn's class and when does it meet?
Where is the BXA Seminar V: Capstone Project Production located?
What is the time slot for Zai's class?
Who teaches New Pedagogies in MM 312 at Pittsburgh?
Who is the instructor for Introduction to Philosophy (80100) Lecture 2 on Monday and Wednesday at 11:00 AM?
What are the programs that follow a different deadline schedule?
Which team did #24 Carnegie Mellon play against in the game mentioned on Sat, Nov/04?
Where does Instructor TBA teach Matter and Interactions II in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the two speakers in Lassman's lecture?
What are the names of the courses offered by Harvilla in this schedule?
 What is the purpose of the ACL60/60 evaluation sets?
What is the course code and instructor for the course offered by Nace at HOA 160?
What is the date of the article about Isabella Sierra balancing volleyball and sorority life?
What is the time schedule for production management class C for 'A Doll's House'?
Who teaches the 'Foundations of Software Engineering' class that starts at 9:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course title and instructor's name for lecture 12.0 at 9:30 AM on Monday?
 What is the key goal of DALI, as mentioned in the text?
How many units are required for a graduate-level Computer Vision course?
Who teaches Managing Digital Business class?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at HOA A10 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Elective Studio (Piano) performance?
How many independent study courses are offered by Rousseau?
When is the 'Modern Physics Laboratory' held?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'Acting III'?
What is the purpose of the Office of International Education (OIE) at Carnegie Mellon?
If further work has not been completed after one semester and a default grade is rendered, what happens to that grade?
What are the class codes for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual) and Computer Technology in Music Education?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in PTC MPR on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
What are the timings for Mittal's class at Penn State?
What are the operating hours of the Shuttle Service?
 What is the purpose of Prompt2Model?
What are the names of the people who will be working on each day for the Production Prep: Penelope section?
What is GHC 4201 used for?
 What is the batch size set for training?
How many countries are represented by international students at Carnegie Mellon?
In which page does this information appear?
 What is the purpose of using BLEU score in the evaluation of translation quality?
How can students get involved in undergraduate research and honors thesis at the university's School of Computer Science?
Does ETS accept the IELTS Academic or IELTS General Training?
According to the text, what has refined our understanding about structuring data in a better way?
Where is 'Digital Service Innovation: A' held?
 What was the aim of the research conducted in the study?
What is the course code for Cornetti's Graduate Recital?
Who conducted Societal Computing Pre-Thesis Q in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the latest news about HCII?
How can students obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of the MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the course name for 'Tarr'?
What is Carnegie Mellon's goal in terms of serving changing needs of society?
 What is the purpose of the binning procedure mentioned in the text?
What are the class times for Discovering the Data Universe?
What is the name of the person who taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and now teaches in Lisbon, Portugal?
What is the location where another course taught by Rawn takes place?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this page?
What is the course code for Senior Thesis I?
What is the name of the first city mentioned in the text?
What services does the Student Academic Success Center offer for International Teaching Assistants (ITAs)?
What did Newell and Simon tell Berliner to do?
 What improvement percentage was observed when providing 2 captions + 1 image compared to a single caption case?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Thomas Mercier in Foundations of Software Management?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
When and where will Information Security Risk Management be held?
When does the 'Advanced SM: Management Styles' course start?
 What are some of the themes across the main events of the stories in the dataset?
 What is the implication of the appearance of the gene ERBB2 in the voice chain, according to the text?
When is the Production Prep: Gloria session for Lighting Design scheduled to take place?
What are the topics of the courses offered on Monday and Wednesday at 12:30 PM?
Where can students find university policies at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name and location of Larson's class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the 'Design Fabrication' course?
Where is Allison Li from?
What is the name of the course that will be held in DH 2122 from 10:00 AM to 10:50 AM?
What is Wiener's lecture about?
What is the course title of lecture 12.0 at 11:00 AM on Friday?
What are the topics discussed in the Privacy Policy, Law, and Technology seminar at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays?
What is the Student Leave Policy?
What is the academic program represented by Fatima Al-Raisi?
Where is the Professional Practice of Product Innovation course held?
How long does it take for a student loan to be repaid?
What are the days and times of Anderson and Sleator's Algorithm Design and Analysis course?
 What is the title of reference 63 in the text?
What is the course name for Cultural History of the Visual Arts - the Modern Period (60106) and who teaches it?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the violin, viola, cello, double bass, guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, and bassoon elective studios?
What is the location of the Thesis Research course?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching the Master of Science Research course?
What are the operating hours of SafeWalk during regular academic year?
What is the role of Early Completion in Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
Who is the instructor for the Trombone class at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is Hollifield teaching Independent Study in Management 3-18?
What are the athletic/fitness facilities available at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How do previous multitask benchmarks in speech, audio, and video representation learning promote fairer comparison of different models?
What is the minimum number of units required to graduate from MCDS program?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered at POS 146 on Thursday afternoon?
What is the course title, credit hours, instructor, and location of the Problems in Chemical Engineering course?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
 How do non-autoregressive constructive heuristics solvers address scalability issues?
What are the names of the two graduate recitals for voice in this text?
 How do monolingual texts, if they exist, tend to be found in relation to ILA?
What is the policy regarding extensions of time limits for completing a master’s degree?
 How does ILL leverage expectation-maximization (EM) in modeling imprecise label information?
When and where does the production prep for Love and Money take place?
What is the purpose of GuSH Research Funding according to the text?
 What kind of pretraining technique did the study propose for TTS?
What resources does Carnegie Mellon University provide for individuals with disabilities?
When does the application for programs beginning in Fall 2024 open?
What are the days and times for Interaction Design Fundamentals?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching at PH A19 in this schedule?
What are the class names and meeting times for Hyatt's classes in HBH 2003?
Where is Denes teaching Business Language Analytics: Mining Financial Texts and Graphs 9.0?
What are the seven academic colleges at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the application of self-training in AL?
How has the use of model checkers improved systems in recent years?
What did Simon predict about the impact of computers on corporations according to Morris's statement?
When and where does Collaborative Piano III take place?
Where can graduate students find information about parking and transportation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the duration of the Information Networking Thesis course?
 Why are strategies like beam search and temperature annealing omitted from the discussion in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Principles of Software Construction: Objects, Design, and Concurrency?
Where and when does Architecture Design Studio: POIESIS STUDIO 3 take place?
What is the purpose of Employment Eligibility Verification at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in the given schedule?
What is the role of Shields, Van Hoesen EA?
What is the name of the course offered by Markovitz in TR 06:30PM - 09:50PM?
What is the course code for 'Engineering Artificial Intelligence Capstone'?
What is the name of the course being taught by Hines at PCA 209?
What is the course code for 'Designing for Service'?
What happens if you use the work of others without proper citation?
 What is the difference in the number of parameters between the RNN and Transformer models for the Romance orthographic dataset?
What are the days, times, and instructors of Physics 33101 Physics First Year Seminar?
What is the name of the instructor for student E, Spacagna?
When and where does Drug Delivery Systems take place?
When and where does Voice and Speech II take place on Mondays, Wednesdays?
 What are the results of the multi-time retrieval approach using FLAREdirect (ours) for question decomposition?
What are the topics covered in Nassif's course?
What are the days and times of the classes listed in the text?
Where is the Euphonium class held, and at what time?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is CMU's policy on drop/add/withdraw procedures for doctoral students?
What happens if a student receives credit for prior coursework completed at CMU or elsewhere?
When and where does Translation Workshop I take place?
What are the locations where Mortensen and Morency work?
Who are the authors of this text?
What does the Student Academic Success Center offer to teaching assistants who are non-native English speakers at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is Soumi Maiti Watanabe's position in the text?
What is the course title of the class that meets in CMB 1190 with Major 70469 End to End Business Analytics?
What are the course codes for 'Introduction to Computer Security' and 'Secure Software Systems'?
Who are Goldwasser's collaborators in defining probabilistically checkable proofs?
When and where is the Mobile and IoT Security class held?
Why is it important for students not to destroy the respect for Carnegie Mellon degree?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon's Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives?
How can you deploy your tutor using CTAT?
 What do AGKD and CGKD in KD-DLGAN complement according to the text?
What is the purpose of the MIIS degree according to the text?
 What is the implication of using all-to-all soft-match systems like ColBERT?
Where is the music studies studio for Flute JB located?
 What does the study conclude about the zero-shot DST method presented?
 What license is this work published under?
At what time does Helgeson's class start?
Where can one find information about all mentioned library locations, hours, online resources, and FAQ’s?
How can students get more information about accessibility at Carnegie Mellon University?
Which department at Carnegie Mellon University offers the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems (MIIS) degree?
What are the names of the classes taught by Gruber in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the name of the recommendation model proposed in the text?
What is Aditya's role at Dropbox?
What is the phone number for obtaining general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
 What has been the most successful strategy for Spanish–English model with ILA according to Vázquez et al. (2021)?
 In the context of multi-task self-supervision, what type of skills are considered for pretraining?
 How many groups were the volatile components divided into for PCA-X and OPLS-DA analysis?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Design Studies: Cultures in MM A11 on Monday and Wednesday?
 What is the impact of linguistic graphs on model performance in few-shot settings according to the experiments?
Who is the instructor for CIT Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Design Project 3-24?
What are the days and times for Vinayak's Special Topics in Graphics: Physically-based Animation of Solids and Fluids class?
What is the minimum QPA required to remain in good standing with the MCDS committee?
What are the time and location of AI Venture Studio?
Who are the collaborators for Design Collaboration Project at PCA 118?
What is the name and location of Kilinc-Karzan's last class?
Where is Jen's class located?
What are the course details for Design Thesis Project?
 What are the embedding dimension D and bottleneck dimension N set to?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: Grown Ups: Lighting and Media Design?
What is the name of the instructor teaching the course 'Special Topics in HCI: Interactive Extended Reality'?
What day and time does the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Stage Management' take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the responsibility of individuals who expect to work on a federally funded project?
What are the course codes for User-Centered Research and Evaluation?
What was notable about Tartans' academic performance during the Fall Semester of 2023?
How often are students evaluated in MIIS program?
Who is giving the Convocation speech?
What happens if a student fails to get approval for their Independent Study?
Which courses have a time slot of Tuesday, Thursday, Friday (TBA) in the Music department?
When and where will be held the Old School - New School Challenge event?
 What was the reward composition used for evaluation in the Knowledge-Grounded Dialog task on the FaithDial test set?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 2:00 PM to 2:50 PM in room DH 1212?
 What type of environments were used in the study?
When will technically-savvy professionals be able to enroll in the new Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations program?
What does LEED stand for?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:30 PM and takes place in room 3SC 172, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Writing Poetry'?
 What is the purpose of presenting the OWSM model in the text?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study 1-12 B and C?
What are the course requirements to attain an MLT degree?
What are the class times for B4's MWF classes?
What are the names of all swimmers mentioned in this text?
What is the name of Nagin's Ph.D. Seminar I course?
What is the course code for Foundations: Time-Based Media mentioned in the text?
 What technique is used by Yang (2022) to remove sarcastic words in text generation?
What is the name of the instructor for Mechanical Engineering Project 3-18?
 What does the study observe about the performance of Indonesian (id) in relation to zero-shot performance?
What is the purpose of concentrations in the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) program?
How can a student determine if they will be able to complete their degree requirements in less than the standard length of time?
 Why is it important to augment LMs with retrieval components?
What are the days and times when Dr. Zayed offers Science and Science Fiction (33120) in Doha, Qatar?
What are the days and times when Tilton A teaches his/her classes?
 What issue was observed with mel-spectrogram based autoregressive models during inference?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
What is the name of the course being taught by Vatanasakdakul in Doha, Qatar?
 How many instances were used in the automatic evaluation with text-davinci-003?
What is the URL for Carnegie Mellon's Gestational and Parental Accommodation protocol?
What are the consequences if students fail to meet these standards?
 How long is each long-form utterance limited to during data preparation for OWSM?
Does Counseling & Psychological Services provide services for academic concerns?
 How did toxicity scores and sentiment change over the years mentioned in the text?
What section in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook can you find information about graduate student funding?
What is the course being offered at HBH 1006 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course taught by Shen on Saturday?
When does Rissinger teach Grad Diction: German?
What is the policy on Intellectual Property according to the handbook?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product in the BOD region?
How many faculty members are mentioned in this text?
 Why does the aerosol extinction coefficient below 0.5 km increase in winter?
What is the full address of Language Technologies Institute?
What are the days and times of Shaping Daylight Through Simulation and Virtual Reality?
What is the accommodation protocol for students who are expecting a child during the semester?
What is the policy regarding suspended students taking courses elsewhere?
Who is Maddie Kellogg?
What are the four key offices mentioned in this section?
 What implication is suggested regarding the optimal informativeness under human judgment?
 Which languages represented the seen languages in both cases of Original and Excluded scenarios?
What are the names of the courses offered in the given schedule?
 How was AGR calculated in the study?
What is the name of the Office that handles International Education?
What is the time slot for Elective Studio (Flute) and Elective Studio (Oboe)?
What are the names of the courses that start at 7:00 PM on Wednesday in CFA A6?
What are the names of the courses offered in Lighting Design?
 Which modeling strategies are tested in the submission?
 What is the core concept discussed in Gira et al. (2022) for reducing bias in pre-trained language models?
Who is the instructor for AE?
What is the name of the person responsible for media design in the production of Lonely Planet?
In which city does Dr. Ganapathiraju teach the course 'Introduction to Computational Biology' on Wednesday at 8:30 AM?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Tuesday from 8:00 AM to 9:20 AM?
Where is the 'Advanced Studies in Film and Media' class held?
Where is Doha, Qatar located in relation to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the instructors at the University of Pittsburgh?
Where did Bain PP take place?
 What are the baselines for noisy label learning experiments in the text?
What is the course 'Interdisciplinary Independent Study' about?
What is the location of Computing @ Carnegie Mellon - G1?
Who teaches Resnick's courses in this schedule?
What is the course code and title of Akan's course offered in this schedule?
What time does Botcha's Modern Analytical Instrumentation class start?
What is the name of the course offered by Artist Diploma Recital/Project?
What is the course code for Special Topics in DIY Design and Fabrication?
What instrument does Kush teach at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)?
What is the course code for Sensing and Data Acquisition for Engineering Systems?
What is one of the 25 great things about SCS?
What is the name of the class being offered at PCA on F from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM in room PCA 308?
When and where does Estimation, Detection and Learning lecture take place?
 How does Prompt2Model generate task-specific models?
What are Daniel Fried's research areas?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Education Office?
What is the course code for Solid Mechanics?
Who is teaching the Inside the Music & Video Technology Industry class?
Where can someone find more information about Ralf's research interests?
What are the days of the week when Virtue F teaches at WEH 5302 and PH A22 respectively?
How does technology benefit society according to the text?
What is the name of the show that will be performed by Edinger on Wednesday at 5:00 PM?
What are the names of the students who will be performing in Advanced Music Studies Studio (Chamber Music), Advanced Music Studies Studio (Piano Maintenance), and Artist Diploma Recital 1.0?
 How many epochs were the models trained for, and what mechanism was used to prevent overfitting?
What are the days and times when the courses are held at GHC 4307 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the university where Reder conducts his research?
What is the URL for Eberly Center support for graduate students?
What are the names of the two people mentioned in this text?
 How are the performance metrics like BLEU and COMET used to evaluate translation performance?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Dr. Rakach in this semester?
 What is the name of the approach introduced in the text for robust UNMT?
What are the locations and instructors for Directed Study in EPP: Undergraduate and Current Topics In Privacy Seminar?
 Why do existing implicit differentiation algorithms face challenges when the iterative solver for base optimization is an adaptive optimizer?
What are the time slots for each of Gloria's production preparation classes?
 What factors contribute to the increase in the size of fine particles?
What is the name of the Products Studio I: Understanding Form & Context class?
Who are the instructors for the 80992 Directed Reading Mini course?
When and where does Introduction to Biomedical Imaging take place?
Are students in professional master’s programs prohibited from seeking support as Teaching Assistants or Research Assistants?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Differential and Integral Calculus on Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday?
Which of these methods is best for sharing short messages with a large audience quickly?
What are the days and times of Anderson and Sleator's Algorithm Design and Analysis course?
What are the two courses offered by Boatwright in TEP 2118?
 What observation was made regarding the computation speed of the encoder or decoder during PAR decoding?
 What is the purpose of acoustic-to-articulatory inversion (AAI)?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is an LTI course?
 How does IPA improve the generated dialogue response compared to Blenderbot?
What is the address of University 5000?
 What type of data did the previous work use compared to the current challenge focusing on far-field audio and video?
What is the statute of limitations for CMU degree completion according to section 3.1?
What is the course title for 48599 Independent Study?
 Where was the study on IC expression on CD8+TILs conducted?
What are the names of the five courses taught by Portnykh in the text?
 Which metric is used to calculate MCD in the text?
 What kind of reward does the agent receive in the tasks evaluated in HILL?
 What reparameterization trick was proposed by Louizos et al. to make the loss differentiable?
What is the name of the sport that most videos on this channel are about?
What are the three courses offered by Instructor in Comprehensive Review (Notes) 1.0?
When does 'Undergraduate Research' take place?
Where can one find full information about the Shuttle & Escort services, stops, routes, tracking, and schedules?
What are Carnegie Mellon University's primary goals according to its mission statement?
 What is the purpose of the detokenization step in the preprocessing pipeline?
Where can students with disabilities get assistance at CMU?
Where was the Women's Tennis match held on Fri, Apr/08?
What is the purpose of the Student Health Insurance Program at UHS?
What is the name of the country where Sylvania Erol was born?
 What is the ultimate goal of the induced structure in the text?
 What is the accuracy (%) for the IMP model with VGG-19 Params.?
What are the course codes for Digital Photography I and Drawing for Non-Majors?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
 What does the model assignment step do?
At what time does Cervesato teach Principles of Functional Programming in Doha, Qatar?
How can a student authorize someone else to receive a copy of their E-Bill?
How many independent study courses are offered by Synnott, Green, Borzutzky and Gormley?
What are the course codes for Special Topics: Energy Innovation and Entrepreneurship and Regulation of Internet Edge Platforms?
What is the time and location of Principles of Software Construction: Objects, Design, and Concurrency?
 Which labs had slightly higher incidence of duplicate ratios >3.5?
Who are the teachers listed in this text?
 What are some of the major models that use significant data pre-processing and toxicity/quality filters?
When and where does Trombetta's Dietrich Leadership Development Seminar take place?
When is 'Rehearsal and Performance IV: Lear' scheduled?
What is the course 'A' about?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures?
 How does the proposed approach compare to previous methods in terms of accuracy on the ImageNet-1K dataset?
 What showed a positive correlation with D50 due to their weak hygroscopicity?
 According to the text, what is the relationship between classical and E2E approaches in speech recognition?
 What are some of the improvements made to the original Transducer models?
What is the course name, instructor, and credit hours for the class held on Thursday at 12:00 PM?
 How can artificial intelligence help play chess better than a human?
 What kind of loss function does OWSM use for ASR targets?
What is the purpose of the 'Load More' button in the news articles section?
What is the MLT Graduate Student Handbook, and where can it be found?
What is the location of the ADDvocate course?
Who should students contact for specific application/admissions questions?
When is the Independent Study being offered?
When does Introduction to Deep Learning take place in Kigali, Rwanda?
How does the community affect the life of a student at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the relationship between the MLT degree handbook and other resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course offered by Instructor TBA in Art for RTBA TBA?
Which schedule would satisfy course requirements for a student interested in voice-based computer applications?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the given time slots?
 In the context of A-LOL, what does Aπref represent?
 What did the study conclude about the use of a two-step flowchart incorporating peritumoral HBP hypointensity and satellite nodule?
Why are vehicle idling prohibited at all loading zones in athletic facilities?
 What is the goal of link prediction in the context of recommendation?
What is Employment Eligibility Verification required for?
 What pretrained models are leveraged in the speech translation system?
What are the days and times for the classes held in room HBH 1007?
What is the course title of the class listed as '06325'?
What kind of programs does the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion offer specifically for LGBTQ+ students?
What are the course codes and titles for the two Web Application Development classes?
What is the purpose of FERPA?
Who are the speakers at the event starting at 03:30PM on Wednesday?
What does 'wet sciences' refer to?
What is Shafi Goldwasser's research subject?
At what time does Dadiani teach Matter and Interactions I at WEH 5320?
Where can students review the university's grading policies?
 In what types of tasks was SELF-REFINE evaluated in the text?
What are the names of the students who will be performing in Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) and Artist Diploma Recital 1.0?
 What is the title of the conference where the paper by Tuan-Hung Vu et al. was presented?
What is the connection between probabilistically checkable proofs and intractability of approximation problems?
Which team did the Tartans play in their first dual match of the season?
Who are the assistant coaches for Michele Bradley in Men's Track & Field?
What are the titles of the two courses taught by Kaestner and Lacomis?
What are the course names and instructors for the courses offered at 09:30 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What resources does SCS Computing Facilities maintain for printer maintenance and troubleshooting?
What is the purpose of the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion at Carnegie Mellon University?
What kind of resources are available for students in the ‘Computers’ section of SCS Computing Facilities?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Theory 3-9 A?
What is the location of Berntsen's internship?
When and where does Moskal's class take place?
When does 'Software Engineering Reflection' take place?
What is one of the strengths of the model checking approach?
What is Laboratory I: Introduction to Chemical Analysis?
What is the next step for this technology after the successful pilot project?
 What dataset model is mentioned in Figure 6 for the 10-shot prompting examples?
 How is the offset in the physical model for the coarse alignment expressed?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Oct/14?
Where does the 'Security War Game Simulation' class take place?
 What is the title of the article by Slavin, M. D., Kisala, P. A., Jette, A. M., and Tulsky, D. S. that focused on developing a contemporary functional outcome measure for spinal cord injury research?
 What is the standard correlation reported at the segment level by WMT?
What was the main focus of DARPA's support for Reddy’s work on speech understanding?
What is the Master of Language Technologies (MLT) program?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 3:00 PM?
Is it possible to waive the English proficiency requirement if you will be studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa?
What are the three courses being offered at 11:00AM to 11:50AM on HOA 226?
Who are the authors of this article?
When is Warren's Production Prep for Costume Design?
 What does the Ångström exponent increasing from 1.2 to 1.6 indicate?
What is the instructor for 'Production Prep: Love and Money' in Carnegie Scenic?
When does the class 'Special Topics: Phase Relations and Phase Diagrams in Magnetoceramics' take place?
 What does the percentage of ties between rankings from different systems indicate?
What is the course name and its schedule for Quality Assurance?
What is the purpose of each line in this text?
 What is the main purpose of using principal component analysis, cluster analysis, OAV value analysis, and OPLS-DA analysis in the study?
What are the class times for the 'Zero Energy Housing' course?
What are the names of the students in Pennsylvania Schlossman's Independent Study?
What are the time slots for Raponi's course 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Voice AE'?
Who is the author of 'The History of Biostatistics'?
What is the name of the class taught by Nguyen B F?
Who are the directors for 'A Little Night Music'?
What are the requirements for attending camps and clinics at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the fund that provides emergency support to students?
What does the Division of Student Affairs include according to the text?
What is the process for appealing final grades according to this text?
 What method was used as an alternative data augmentation method in the absence of monolingual target data for backtranslation?
Who are the instructors for 80595 Senior Thesis?
When and where will Literature & Repertoire: Woodwind be taught?
What is the title of Theory 12.0 A F?
When and where does the second class take place?
What is the name of the Rape Agression Defense Systems (RAD) class offered at CUC ACTVY in Pittsburgh?
 What were the two main reasons for creating the VALUEPRISM dataset?
What is the purpose of Enrollment Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the policy for students who require an extended period to complete their degree requirements?
What does it mean when an arithmetic error occurs in computing a grade?
What is the title of the course taught by Lucas in POS 147 at 7:00 PM?
What are the course codes and titles for the classes that start at 12:00 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What does 'previous' mean in this context?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
What does 'disembodied computation' mean according to the text?
 What is the abbreviation ACL stand for?
What is the purpose of the MLT Handbook?
How long does it take for students to receive Video Response feedback from the Communication Support program?
What is the course name of 'Materials Project II'?
What are the days and times when Mcgowan is teaching Interdisciplinary Independent Study at OFF CAMPUS Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does Production Prep: TBA 8: Stage Management D take place?
Who is the instructor for the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Chamber Music) course?
What are the course codes and titles of the three courses offered by Dr. Atkeson?
Who is teaching 'Roller Coasters: Background and Design' in this schedule?
What is required to check in at the desk and scan ID?
What is the course title for Exploring Pittsburgh in Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
 What role does the semantic representation variable play in the BASS model?
What is the name of the class that has a schedule on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 06:30 PM to 10:30 PM and Tuesday from 08:00 AM to 11:00 PM?
Who is teaching 'Introduction to Quantum Computing' in this schedule?
What opportunities does being part of the MCDS program offer?
 How are the correlations between generated images and CLIP text features built in CGKD?
What is the title of the course held by Pavlo and Patel on Monday, Wednesday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM?
What is the course title of Gligor's Network Security class?
What is the name of the class that meets on Tuesdays for 'Penelope'?
What is the starting price of hoodies at this store?
What opportunities does being part of the MCDS program offer?
Where is the school located?
What does the term 'multiple programs running simultaneously' mean in computer systems?
Who is teaching the 'Directing IV: Next Steps' course?
What are the steps a student needs to take before starting an independent study?
 How does the GitHub stars filter affect performance?
What is the location of Instructor TBA F?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
What are the credits assigned to Internship course (HBH 1007) offered on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 10:00 AM to 11:20 AM?
What are the names of the professors teaching at 2:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room PH A18B?
Who teaches the class titled 'Foundations of Learning, Game Theory, and Their Connections'?
Which office maintains and supports computing resources for the campus community at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
 What is the focus of the speech translation system described in the text?
How do I reach out to a Plaidvocate?
What is the course code for all courses taught by Conley?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the person who taught Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12,15 B2?
 Why is selecting the appropriate number of full-rank training epochs essential?
Who can apply for the Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores (PDEEC)?
 What does Figure 16 in the text illustrate in terms of canary exposure?
Who can attend the professional development programs offered by AVPGE?
What is the course name for 76207?
 What are the main findings regarding the benefits of Chain-of-Skills inference?
What are the names of the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 6?
 What metric is used to evaluate prosody diversity and naturalness?
Who are the instructors for the 'Undergraduate Research' course?
What is the course name for section F taught by Cervesato and Kaynar in Pittsburgh?
What is the course code for MA Studio II: Intro Interaction Design?
What does PCHE stand for in the context of Carnegie Mellon University's cross-registration program?
In which room is lecture B for Foundations of Programming Languages held?
When is the course 'Lean Entrepreneurship' held?
 What is the sampled loss proposed by the authors?
 What are some examples of two-pass algorithms that have been investigated for end-to-end ASR systems?
What are the days/times for course HBH A301 and what does it teach?
Who is responsible for the fees of prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures, and referral to emergency room or specialists?
What are the two facilities mentioned in section 7.17 and 7.18?
Where is DNM located?
On which page of this handbook will you find information about Carnegie Mellon University's statement of assurance?
 What model was used for training the UNMT models in the text?
What time does the class start for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): Lighting?
What is the course name for A1 TR 02:00PM - 03:20PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What are the two most frequent architectures for NMT models?
Who teaches Product and Brand Management course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days of the week and times for Bug Catching course offered by Instructor TBA D?
Who are the speakers for the event starting at 02:00PM on Monday and Wednesday?
Where is the location of the school?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
What is the name of the course taught by Gauntner that introduces students to Yoga?
What is the name of the building where Laudenbach B2 class is held?
Name two courses that start at 08:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday.
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
What are the topics covered in sections 9.10 and 9.11 of this text?
What are some recent accomplishments of the Graduate Student Assembly?
What is the consequence of failing to identify conceptual sources in any presentation or work submitted?
What should students do if they find themselves struggling in the program?
Where can students register for CMU Alert?
Where can students find information about the Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the two key offices for health, wellness, and safety at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the authors of this text?
What are the names of the authors who wrote about Large Language Model Systems?
 What is in-context learning and why is it important for language models?
What are the names of the production preparation classes for Mr. Burns?
What is the course code for Environmental Chemistry Laboratory?
What are the names of all events mentioned in this text?
Who teaches Literature and Repertoire: Percussion at DNM?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Elective Studio (Voice)'?
What are the days, times, and location of the course that starts at 6:30 PM on Monday and ends at 9:20 PM in room HBH A301?
Does the text mention any security issues related to accessing the website bookstore.web.cmu.edu?
What is the purpose of MCDS Program FAQ?
Can you use the information from this calendar to plan your schedule?
What is the name of the course being offered by Zhu?
What are the names of the two cities mentioned in the text?
What is the name of each class held on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does MI stand for in the context of the given information?
What is the title of the course taught by Ania Wang?
What should be done after meeting with the member of the Dean’s Office staff?
 What is the special token added at the start of target unit sequences in the proposed framework?
What is the name of the course that focuses on computational methods for biological modeling and simulation?
 What does the work by Saeki et al., 2022b achieve?
Where and when does the 'Twisted Signals: Multimedia Processing for the Arts' class take place?
What are the course codes for Kinetics of Metallurgical Reactions and Processes and Nanostructured Materials?
What are the names and days/times of classes taught by Rosselot-Merritt G?
What is the course code for Business Computing taught by Mukhopadhyay?
What is the name of the course that starts with 'A'?
In which room does Wigginton teach on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What are the types of events organized by this institution?
 What is the median OS time for patients in the study?
What are College Liaisons in the Division of Student Affairs responsible for?
What is the location of B class?
 How can the Tucker decomposition be inferred without reconstructing the original tensor?
Are Master's students who receive an academic stipend funded by Carnegie Mellon eligible to continue receiving it during pregnancy?
What is Avery Tompkins' event?
What is the name of the instructor for 57794 Comprehensive Review (Notes) 1.0 and 57796 Graduate Composition Project 1.0?
What is the name of the course being taught at 12:00 PM on Thursday?
Where does the 'Briefing in the Policy World' class take place?
How many credits does Human-Computer Interaction 05680 have?
What are the two offices under Campus Wellness according to A.3.3?
What are the names of the courses taught by Taylor at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the students at Quesenberry's school who have taken Independent Study in Information Systems with Phelps 67391 as their instructor?
When does the Seminar for Peer Mentors take place?
What is the title of the project taught by Dr. Kroemer?
What resources are available in Appendix A for graduate students?
What is the name of the course that Walton R teaches in PTC MPR?
What is the name of each instructor mentioned in the text?
How long does it take to receive feedback after a scheduled appointment?
 What checkpoint is used to initialize the model for TSP-1000?
 What influenced the change in relative humidity during the pollution event?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
When and where are the Production Prep classes held in Pittsburgh?
Name two courses that start at 09:30 AM on Tuesday.
When does the Advanced Derivative Models class take place in New York City?
What are the standard degree requirements and certification for Master's Degree Completion?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesdays from 2:00 PM to 3:50 PM in HH B103?
 Which models were used to test the effectiveness of PAR?
Who teaches Decision Making Under Uncertainty?
In which room does Cervesato teach Principles of Imperative Computation in Flushing?
How can a student replace a required course if they are exempt from it due to prior courses or experience?
How can someone share this information on Facebook?
Where can you find more information about these events and news?
What are the class times for each of the classes listed in this schedule?
What is the course code for MSCS Research Thesis?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the course that teaches about Ph.D. Thesis Research in EPP?
What is the instructor's name for Production Prep: Mr. Burns on S 11:00AM - 03:00PM?
What is the name of the instructor for course 95918?
What are the basics of CTAT?
When does the Kiltie Concert Band perform after football season?
Where does Stenger teach Current Topics in Computational Biology?
Where is Robert Coury from?
Where can one follow the Carnegie Mellon Spirit Squad on social media?
 How many steps did they train the model for?
What is the name of the studio where Galbraith teaches at in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook according to the text?
How can students access information about courses offered in this page?
What are the names of the courses taught by Sudbury?
What is Early Completion in the context of Master's Degree Completion?
 What is the main limitation of N-gram Language Models (LMs) despite their simplicity?
 What impact did neural methods have on the NLP community?
Who teaches the 'Thesis/Project' course?
 What type of system is described in the second paper mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times for Readings 3-15?
What is the name of the course taught by Feinberg at BH A36?
 Why is using MO-GI considered more efficient than SO-GI?
What are the topics covered in 11-695?
 How does the proposed decoupling approach aim to reformulate the traditional bilevel optimization inherent to dataset condensation?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Advanced ETB: Animation Studio?
What is the purpose of section 4.2 in this text?
What events does Krystal Xiao-Rao participate in?
 What percentage of cases showed large effect sizes in the differences between original applications and improved versions?
 What is the main focus of speech-to-speech translation (S2ST)?
 What did the authors use to host an offline version of English Wikipedia with a knowledge cutoff of May 2023?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Instructor Zollman?
Who are the students and alumni of Language Technologies Institute?
What are the dates and times of the A section of Directing?
What is the name of Woodruff and Anderson's course on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday?
 How do the effects of pretraining misalignment differ for larger models compared to smaller models?
 In the training process, how is the bi-encoder optimized to minimize the loss?
 What challenge did W. Yuan, Q. Han, D. Liu et al. participate in, and what was the title of their system in 2021?
Who teaches IPS Policy Seminar I and III at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where is the Tartan Women's Cross Country Schedule?
What is the process students must follow to complete registration within SIO?
What is the name of the instructor for Musical Theater History?
 How does the proposed IBWBS algorithm modify the stopping criterion of the original BWBS?
What is the time, day, and location of Wojciechowski's class?
 What does the correlation between 𝛿RR1 and LP indicate?
 What is the PET framework designed to achieve, as mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course being taught by Morehshin in Advanced ETB: Animation Studio?
What are the days and times of Willis's User-Centered Research and Evaluation: 12.0?
What is the course code for Directing?
Who is the new director at the Language Technologies Institute (LTI) and what are their goals?
What are the days and times of the Introduction to Springboard Diving class offered by Gauntner?
When and where is Making Products Count: Data Science for Product Managers class held?
Can I reapply if I was not admitted last year?
What are the locations of the classes offered in the text?
 How does the success rate of GPT-4 compare to human performance?
Which office supports and advocates for all students, including graduate students, in their academic and personal success?
What is Alexander Hauptmann's research interests?
What is the date of the Softball game between Brandeis and Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of the person who taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and now teaches in Lisbon, Portugal?
 What did the researchers find regarding the antiviral susceptibilities of influenza C and D viruses to RNA polymerase inhibitors?
What are the course codes and titles of the classes that start at 9:30 AM on Mondays?
How many courses are listed in this text?
What are the three main goals that the university wants to achieve?
Where does Practicum in Mathematical Sciences take place?
What are the days and times of Graduate Seminar I for student Zhao?
What if I have taken the GMAT?
 How is the diversity of values, rights, and duties ensured in the KALEIDOSYS system?
In what room and at what time does Zayed teach Science and Science Fiction in Doha, Qatar?
How can you get involved with student organizations at Carnegie Mellon?
How can someone contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the course that starts with 'B'?
Who is teaching Voice and Speech II: Practicums in Room A35 on Friday?
How does creativity thrive in an academic environment?
What are the rules and regulations that govern the attainment of a MCDS degree by Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
What are the names of the instructors for each class?
Who are the instructors for CIT Undergraduate Projects 0-18?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C102 from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM on Tuesday?
 What type of loss is used to train the network in the given text?
What are the names of the instructors for Computer Graphics, Physics-Based Rendering, Real-Time Graphics, Neural Computation, Independent Study in the Computer Sciences, MSCS Career Planning?
What is the responsibility of a student on leave of absence when returning to the program?
What is the purpose of the changes made in CTAT 4.2.0?
What is the course code for Machine Learning II held at TCS 250 in Pittsburgh?
What is the university policy on grades and grading?
What is the title of the course that starts at 5:00 PM and ends at 6:20 PM on Wednesday?
What is the mission of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times for each course mentioned in the text?
What is the location of all classes?
What is double counting in academic policies?
What are the two sections mentioned in this text?
What is the course title offered by Kubler in Pittsburgh campus?
 How do FactCC and QAGS-based models approach factuality detection?
What is the name of the elective studio that Ojeda teaches at Elective Studio (Piano) 3-9 A TBA TBA?
What is the name of the recital that takes place at Instructor TBA G?
How do Master's students remain in close contact with their graduate program during Longer-than-standard Completion?
Which instructors are listed only once in this text?
What instrument does Premo teach at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
Where can students find more information about Carnegie Mellon's Student Health Insurance policy?
 What are some methods used to reduce computation and speed up inference in Transformer models?
Who are the instructors for Societal Computing Pre-Thesis 17802?
What is the name of the person who will be working on Production Management for Lonely Planet?
What is expected from students regarding computers at the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the purpose of a dissertation defense in PhD programs?
What are the course codes for Elementary Chinese Online I and Elementary Chinese Online II?
What are the days and times of the courses taught by Cai?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What does 'Grandfather' policy refer to in LTI academic policies?
Where is the Software Engineering Independent Study held?
What is the course number for Independent Study in Eurhythmics?
Where is the course 'Introduction to Information Security Management' held?
 How is the loss function L defined in joint distillation and structured pruning?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
Who are the authors of this text?
Who are the academic programs represented by the following individuals?
What is the purpose of the phone number provided in the text?
How many wins and losses did Carnegie Mellon have in their last game against #1 NYU?
 How do PaLM-2 models compare with GPT-based GEMBA evaluator in terms of system-level performance?
 How is the right sample picked with nucleus sampling in the model?
How are grades recorded on Carnegie Mellon University transcripts for courses taken through the university’s cross-registration program?
What is the purpose of Academic Research Practices and Scientific Communities course?
What are the course codes and their respective days, times, and locations for all courses taught by Heard in this schedule?
Where was the Department of Computer Science located at Carnegie-Mellon University?
What are the days and times of classes 67265 Design Fundamentals: Shaping Interactions and Experiences, 67266 Building Better Web Applications, and 67301 Networks and Telecommunications?
When and where does Tomprou teach Negotiation and Conflict Resolution: TBA C3 R?
What are the names of the two Organizational Learning and Strategic Management classes mentioned in the text?
When do students graduate from this program?
What happens to Master's students who require longer-than-standard completion?
What does 'graded@andrew.cmu.edu' refer to?
 What are the two major lines of research in gradient-based meta learning algorithms mentioned in the text?
What are some examples of resources offered through the Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs?
What is the practical formulation of delegating computation to an untrusted 'cloud' computer introduced by Shafi?
 What is involved in a typical training program to climb Mount Kilimanjaro?
Where is Design Lab held?
What are the requirements for Ph.D. program at LTI?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Research 3-9 E and Independent Study in Performance 3-9 G?
 What is the proposed approach mentioned in the text more computationally efficient than?
What is the name of the course that teaches String Quartet: A Social History?
What is the name of the course that starts at 5:00 PM and ends at 6:20 PM?
Where is this information found?
What are the days of the week for each class listed in the text?
What is a sponsored student in the MCDS program?
What are the three types of independent studies offered?
In which rooms are two courses taught by Bates being held?
 What is the proposed solution for avoiding issues stemming from base Jacobian inversion?
What is the course title of the tenth class listed in the schedule?
When should a student typically find their thesis topic during their Ph.D. studies?
What are the names of the classes held by Jafry O'Connor?
 Where can the Pythia 2.7B model be downloaded from?
 What tool was used for comparing the approach to the available tooling for improving performance for Android?
 What is the role of the semantic encoder in the joint model architecture?
 What is one reason why NAR performs faster than PAR?
How many Tartans earned UAA Presidents Council Scholar-Athlete Recognition in August 2023?
Where and when is Product Discovery & Definition B2 held?
Who is the instructor for the course 'Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Analysis: Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Analysis B M 06:30PM 08:50PM DH 3302'?
Who are the instructors for Practice Teaching (Secondary) and what is its location?
How and when will I be notified if I am admitted?
 What criteria does the concept of psychological relevance suggest are necessary but not sufficient for judging an item relevant?
 Why is endpointing important in streaming speech recognition systems?
Who are the students listed in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Yurko's independent study?
 What diffusion model is found to be more effective than sampling more solutions, even with less computation?
What is the name of the person who teaches 'Directing III: INTRODUCTION TO TV & FILM DIRECTING'?
Where and when is the first event happening?
Which player is from Bellevue, Washington?
Why are laptops necessary in the MS program according to the text?
What is the name of the first project mentioned?
 What does the frequency of blank emissions vs non-blank emissions show in the TDT models?
What information does the Office of Housing and Dining Services provide for graduate students seeking off-campus housing?
 What did the results show about zero-shot LLM evaluators and learned metrics at the system level?
What are the acceptable substitute courses for 11-791, which is not currently being offered?
Who teaches HyperSENSE: Augmenting Human Experience in Environments, a 12.0 credit course held on F at 1:00 PM in room MM 215?
What is the course code for Graduate Community Engagement?
What are the requirements for internships with units attached to them at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
 Who provided the raw Amazon product data in Webshop according to the acknowledgements?
Who are the instructors for Reasoning with Data Lec MWF 10:00AM - 10:50AM and BH 140A course?
What is the course name taught by Cowart, Pangaro in MM A11 on Monday and Wednesday?
Which year did player number [Number] join the team?
What position does Maddy Beall play?
What is ADPI?
 Which model was the initial model for GitHub Copilot?
 What GPU model is used for training the segmentation model?
How does advising work for PhD students at LTI?
What is safeguarding educational equity policy against at university?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What is Duolingo?
What is the location of Independent Study 1-12 A?
When was the official announcement of CMU’s new 'graduate School of Computer Science' made?
What is the course code and title of the course offered on Wednesday at 09:00 AM in room MM 215?
What is the name of the department where 'Applied Quantitative Social Science II' is taught?
What is the purpose of the event listed in Chiu AC?
Who are the faculty members mentioned in this text?
 What is one of the compelling applications of GILL mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times of the Yoga classes offered by Stragar?
 Why is instruction tuning considered important for universal speech models?
What is the significance of A.2 in the provided text?
What are the locations of the instructors teaching Internship for Electrical and Computer Engineering Applied MS Students and Internship for Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Students?
What is the name of the methodology of visualization taught by Zywica, a 12.0 credit course held on TR at 5:00 PM in room MM 107?
When are Cultural Studies Elective - Graduate Level classes held?
What is Raj Reddy known for his work in?
What are the requirements for internship search mentioned in this text?
Where can students find more information about ordering transcripts?
 What was the scale used by annotators to rate the likelihood of a noun being an agent in an event?
 What is the main advantage of the unified framework proposed in the paper?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What should I do if I plan to take the TOEFL, IELTS and/or GRE in either November or December?
What is the role of health promotion specialists at UHS?
What are the consequences for violating the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
 What is the focus of the work by Li et al. (2022)?
 Which model outperforms the traditional rankers across all metrics in the experimental results discussed in the text?
What is the course code for Advanced Research in Hispanic Language & Culture?
 How is the relevance between user-item interaction history H and item 𝑣 calculated?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Literature and Repertoire?
What is the course code for Media Design L?
Who should students seek guidance from regarding their program of study and degree requirements?
What are the course codes for the three PhD courses mentioned in the text?
 What was the impact of using Anthropic’s HHH prompt on the model?
 What are the agreement scores for empathic, event, emotion, and moral similarity among annotators?
When and where is the lecture 'What’s a Bitcoin? – A Non-Technical Introduction' by Michael I. Shamos, Ph.D., J.D. held?
How can students update their contact information on SIO?
What are the names of all the classes that Harper is teaching in Doha, Qatar?
Who is the instructor for Pessoa's class?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Gaynor in room 1005 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
 What does the study experimentally confirm regarding training for performance enhancement?
What are the days and times for Independent Study in Humanities Analytics?
 Why does DPWavLM achieve further improvements in 8 tasks compared to DPHuBERT?
 What is the DI-ASAFETY dataset and how is it used in the study?
According to the text, what are computers provided for MS students at The Language Technologies Institute?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 3:30 PM on Tuesday and Thursday in room PH 126A?
What are the days and times of Project Research?
Who announced the promotions and title changes in the Athletics Department?
Who teaches the BXA Studio (2nd semester) course at 9.0 AA?
When should applicants submit their applications to any of the graduate programs in Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What are the class names and instructors for classes 57183, 57188, 57191, and 57192?
 What does the work on speech separation and recognition with self-supervised learning representation focus on?
 What is an approach mentioned in §4 for optimizing models using human feedback?
 What is the main difference in utilizing speech units discovered from the HuBERT model compared to previous methods?
 What are some scenarios that are strictly prohibited when using the Jais-chat 13B model?
Why do the boys want to form a band?
What is the duration of each course?
What are the names of the two people teaching the 'Graduate Directing: Text to Stage' class?
 What does Equation 8 estimate according to Equations 7 and 5?
What is the difference between iCalendar and RSS Feed?
What is the name of the production that starts at 06:30 PM on Monday through Friday?
What are the names of the courses being offered in AI Applications in Business and Energy Finance?
What is the date and time of the Gettysburg College event on the schedule?
 According to the text, is the current shift in NLP the first period of change in the field?
What are the days of the week when each course is offered?
What is the subject of Achnani's class?
What kind of medical care does University Health Services provide for emergency situations?
What is the name of the instructor for Products Studio I: Understanding Form & Context class?
How to contact SafeWalk for requesting an escort?
What are the names of the instructors for Advanced Digital Integrated Circuit Design?
What is the purpose of Affiliate ID Cards at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title of the Biology for Life Special Topics Micro course?
What is the name of the course offered by Instructor TBA 57615?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
What is the course name for Tsamitis's Special Topics course?
 What is Unlimiformer and how does it improve transformer models?
What is the name of the showcase that will be performed by Haden on Friday at 1:30 PM?
What is the purpose of the annual campus security and fire safety report?
 What is the version number of AdaSpeech 3 mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the initiative that focuses on environmental issues at CMU?
 What are the two different configurations mentioned in Table 2 using AED with joint CTC?
What are the different departments included in the Division of Student Affairs?
 What is the Word Error Rate (WER) achieved by Whisper on the ASR task?
How many units are required to attain an MIIS-21 Advanced Study degree?
What are the names of the teachers and their class locations?
Who teaches Special Topics: Fundamentals of Software-Defined Networking at INI DEC in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the 'Introduction to Show Networking' class on Friday from 4:00 PM to 5:20 PM?
Where does the internship for the course 'Information Systems Internship' take place?
What are the days and times of the Lighting Design class?
Which team did Carnegie Mellon play against in their fifth loss of the season?
When does the 'Chemical Thermodynamics' class take place?
Are students in professional MS programs prohibited from seeking support as Teaching Assistants and Research Assistants?
Where can graduate students obtain a copy of the annual security and fire safety report?
What was the name of the competition that ChipTest won in North America in 1987?
 What factors are important for the fatigue safety of high-performance steel structures?
What is the title of the Introduction to Software Construction course, who teaches it, and what are its meeting times?
 How are the first-unchanged messages collected?
What is the name of the award that he received in 2006?
Who is the instructor for the course starting with 'A'?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the title of the course that starts at 02:00PM on Wednesday in PH223D?
Who are the instructors listed in this text that have a last name starting with 'C'?
When and where is the 'Advanced Topics in Stage Management: Cross-Boundaries' class held?
Which courses focus on lighting design and sound production?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'Production Prep: Sender'?
How many courses are listed in this text?
What are the requirements to earn an MSAII degree?
What is the purpose of the annual campus security and fire safety report published by Carnegie Mellon University?
What was the result of Tartans Women's Soccer team against Fredonia on September 2?
How did Dr. Simon use computers in his work?
Who are the people responsible for administering the MIIS degree at Carnegie Mellon University?
 Which paper introduces the Deep FusionNet for point cloud semantic segmentation?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
 What is the main issue faced by existing item id based recommendation systems?
 Which MIS solver is a heuristics solver for MIS?
 How many positive and negative passages are sampled during training from the top 100 chains returned by COS?
 What model is used as the baseline model in the study?
 What does Table 14 in the text provide information about?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-24 taught by Instructor B and Branstetter?
What is the phone number of the institute mentioned in the text?
Do you need to log in with your CMU ID card to use a photocopier or printer at the Language Technologies Institute?
What are some specific policies mentioned in this text?
 What toolkit was used for indexing and BM25 search?
 How many hyperparameters does the Tensor-Train decomposition involve?
How many breadth courses are required in Language Technology Applications?
 What does the error bars in Figure 2 represent?
 How many steps are involved in the consistency evaluation for each task in the benchmark?
 What is the unique characteristic of the approach described in the text?
What are the main categories of student awards offered by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
When and where is the MIIS Directed Study being held?
 What do the chromatic analysis figures in Figure 4 show for NER and KG Link Tail Prediction?
What are the course codes for Biomedical Engineering 1-2 and Directed Study 3-9?
What are the programs that follow a different deadline schedule?
Who is eligible for Emergency Loans mentioned in the text?
 What are some potential future directions mentioned in the Conclusion & Future Work section?
 At a specific SS, how did D50 vary with the degree of internal mixing?
 What does a higher (D75 − D25)/D50 at SS = 0.3% suggest?
What is the title of Professional Development Seminar?
What should students do to register for any of the parental accommodations described in the text?
What are the two offices mentioned in section A.1.2 of Appendix A?
 Where did the paper on never-ending learning of sounds originate from?
 What is the title of the work that unveils the link between phonemes and facial features?
What time does Zhang H start his class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the class held in room MM A11 on Tuesday at 12:00 PM?
What is mentioned about MIIS in this passage?
What are the days and times that the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Sound Design' is held?
How many credits does the Behavioral Economics course have?
What is the title of the course being taught by Sooriamurthi Mccarthy in Pittsburgh?
When does the Special Topics in Signal Processing: Graph Signal Processing & Learning class start?
What is the status for international students who are considering completing their degree requirements early?
What is the name of the course taught by Salvador at Masters EST&P Project VAR?
When and where does Undergraduate Internship 85505 take place?
 What is one possible example given to explain the lower Mel Cepstral Distortion (MCD) of VITS?
Who teaches the Search Engines course?
What are the names of the courses offered under Lighting Production (J)?
What are some of the terms defined in this handbook?
Where was Carnegie Mellon's first final match?
What is the final result of the match between Oberlin and the Tartan Men's Tennis team in February 2024?
When does Wu's Autonomous Self-Adaptive Systems Using Reinforcement Learning class take place?
What was unique about Berliner's approach to chess?
What are the class times for Lighting Design?
 What is the performance of Jais-chat compared to existing English models?
Who is the instructor of the course that starts at 6:30 PM on Friday and ends at 9:20 PM in room HBH 1204?
What are the days/times for Bollinger's class?
 What is the denoising diffusion implicit models (DDIMs) algorithm used for?
Who teaches Production Practicum and Acting for Directors I?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Dance II: Pillars to Build Dance Technique 3.0?
What is the course code for Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations taught by Tikhomirov?
What are the course codes and instructors for Reading and Research 1-48?
How do Carnegie Mellon employees receive tuition benefits?
What are the names of the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 8?
What are the names of the courses being taught in the given time slots?
What is the name of the website where graduate student financial aid information can be found at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course that takes place VAR in room DNM and has Practice Teaching (Elementary) as one of its subjects?
Why do F-1 or J-1 students need to consult with their designated advisor in the Office of International Education (OIE)?
Where is the event 'Get Career Ready: Unlocking Pathways to Success 3.0 W3 M 11:30AM 12:45PM' located?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Literature & Culture - Third Cinema: People, Language, and Culture in Documentary Storytelling held at TEP 1024?
What is Teruko Mitamura's research interests?
What computational problem can quantum computers not attack but public-key cryptography is based on?
What is the name of the instrument mentioned in this text that is not a wind or percussion instrument?
What is the role of teamwork in this program according to the text?
What is the significance of chess according to Schaeffer?
 How did annotators achieve reliable high-quality annotations in SemanticSTF?
Who should report accidents on CMU property?
What is the name of the class held on Tuesday from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM in room MM 312?
Who are the instructors for Natural Language Processing: 12.0 Natural Language Processing B TBA DNM DNM?
How can students get involved with GSA or contact them for assistance?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for the 'Steep by Steep: Investigation into Tea Culture' course?
Where does Professor Rosé work?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Reading and Research?
 What are some of the challenges in machine translation for indigenous languages of the Americas?
What are the course codes of all courses offered by Ventura?
What is ORIC's role in export controls?
What are the class timings for Model Minorities: Race, Rhetoric, & Identity in Asian America?
How many courses are taught by each instructor mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of the Text Book Information section at Carnegie Mellon Home?
Who can I contact for more information about Language Technologies Institute?
What are the topics covered in Technology Strategy?
What are the names of the instructors for Designing Human Centered Software A and B?
 What were the %GCVs for B Victoria and B Yamagata in the previous FLUCOP study?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
Who are the instructors for the last course mentioned?
What are the dates and times of the classes offered in the text?
When is Garrod and Blelloch's class A held at WEH 6403?
What is the office location of Lori Levin?
What is the course code for Quantum Computation and Quantum Information Theory?
 What does the NIH Grant Abstracts dataset include?
What is the purpose of the Sexual Misconduct Policy and Retaliation Policy at Carnegie Mellon University?
Which center offers assistance to individuals with disabilities?
Who are the instructors for the 'Introduction to Competitive Magic: The Gathering' course at POS 145 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the three students who will be presenting their thesis research and writing in the field of Concert Lighting Design?
When should a draft of the thesis be distributed to the committee?
What are the class times for Materials & Assembly (CFA 200) on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
 What is the mean absolute difference between satellite-derived GRASP/Component BC products and in situ measurements in China?
What time does 32102 Seapower and Maritime Affairs class start?
What was the role of Morris in relation to Nico Habermann?
Where and when does Mukherjee's lecture take place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is the course name and credit hours of Grande Gutierrez's first class?
What is the name of the course that covers E-Commerce Tech, Machine Learning, Analytics, & Bots?
 What was the average CCN concentration at SS = 0.1% during the observation period?
What do they wear under those kilts?
Where can students find information about the leave of absence process at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the instructors for Reading and Research 1-48 and Graduate Reading and Research?
What is the name of the course that focuses on support for students with disabilities?
 Who proposed the Transformer model for text-to-image generation?
What are the course codes of all classes that start at 10 AM?
What is the location of Schepkin Advanced Music Studies Studio?
 What is the streaming assumption mentioned in the text?
Are there other libraries open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
What is the purpose of the process mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the production preparation class for Lonely Planet that starts at 5:00 PM on Monday and ends at 6:20 PM?
What is the purpose of section 4.5 in this text?
How long can a student take a leave of absence from the MCDS program?
 What is the significance of the caption weight parameter (wc) in the study?
What is the name of the course offered in Video & Media Design?
What are the days/times for course HBH 1208 and what does it teach?
 What is lexical constraint during score fusion?
At what time is the men's tennis match between Denison and Carnegie Mellon?
 What is used to find memorized training samples in the study?
What are the names of the two Department Research Honors classes?
When are the production preparation classes for Lorca: Scenic Design held?
What are the class names and meeting times for classes held in Hammond A2?
Where is the lecture on Special Topics: Generative AI and Large Language Model being held?
 What kind of forces are included in the equation of motion for the i-th mass component in multi-mass models?
Where and when does the 'Movies You Should Have Watched By Now: 3.0' course take place?
 What were the results of combining KALE terms with BM25 in the BEIR benchmark?
What should I provide as my current address?
How many programs produced at least a 3.40 team GPA at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the variational family assumed to be the same for all clients in federated learning?
 What test set was used for the distribution of scores in Figure 14?
How does GSA act as a representative body for all graduate students?
What is the process for appealing final grades at CMU?
What are some recent news articles related to Men's Tennis at this university?
What is the course name for Ramakrishnan and Singh's lecture?
 How does the text explain the performance drop of the parser when the dialogue becomes longer?
 According to the study on failure cases of DSR-LM, what usually causes the failure of the method?
What are the course codes and instructors for courses A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z?
What is the purpose of Employment/Consulting according to LTI's academic policies?
 What are some optimizations proposed to speed up Transformer model training?
Which department in Student Affairs helps students develop their leadership skills and engage them in community service?
What does the Student Support Resources team offer?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the afternoon at PTC MPR Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the class names and their respective locations for the given time slots?
 How is factuality defined in scientific literature review writing?
What should a student do if they require longer than standard time for their Master's degree completion?
When and where will the NCAA Div. III Region 4 Diving Championships take place?
Who are the instructors for CIT Undergraduate Projects 19-36?
What are the names of the courses taught by Instructor TBA 57130 and Instructor TBA 57134?
 What does a high relative humidity (>65%) lead to in terms of aerosol particles?
 How many of the benchmarks had warnings that could not be repaired without introducing buggy behavior?
What are the MCDS capstone courses?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
What is the name of the instructor for Advanced Business Analytics course?
 What is the main finding regarding the impact of query rewriting techniques on the performance of multilingual question-answering systems?
Where was the Tartans' final road contest of the season held on October 14, 2023?
Who are the instructors for 'Sender: VAR Directing'?
Who are the faculty members of Language Technologies Institute?
What instrument does Evans B specialize in?
 How is the approach for contrastive captioning in the text different from previous methods?
What is the purpose of The HUB Assistant Directors in assisting students with enrollment process?
 What are the three plug-ins included in the VOCal software?
 What is the purpose of the FEVER dataset?
Where and when does DeSantis' second class take place?
Are home events in the conference bolded?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for the courses offered in Doha, Qatar?
What are the interdisciplinary programs in the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition?
What are the requirements for satisfying proficiencies in Writing, Presentation, Programming, and Teaching?
When does the student have to take a graduate-level Artificial Intelligence course?
How can students find additional information on financial issues for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of 'Production Prep: Lear' on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM at TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the different categories available on Language Technologies Institute's menu?
What is the intellectual property policy mentioned in section 3.3.23 about?
What is the topic of the news article?
 How many similarity ratings do workers provide for each story pair?
What is required to apply for the graduate programs at this institution?
What time did Women's Tennis start at The Capitol Hill Classic?
Where and when does the 'Design Perspectives in HCI' course take place?
 Which system outperforms the baseline on strict accuracy and achieves comparable performance on macro/micro F1 in the crosslingual task?
What are the main categories of programs offered by the university's School of Computer Science?
Who wrote the proposal for the Software Engineering Institute?
Who is the instructor of Advanced Studies in Film and Media?
What is the number of players from New York State on the roster?
What was the date when the strategic plan for 2023-2028 of the Carnegie Mellon University Department of Athletics was unveiled?
In what city does Bruder teach Environmental Psychology?
What is the purpose of 'Responsible Thinking' at CMU?
What are the days and times of the week when CMB 3046 is offered at Doha, Qatar Affara?
Who are the instructors for each instrument in Major Studio?
When and where does Kahniashvili teach Introduction to Mathematical Physics I?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in Production Management?
What are the names and course codes for Paulisick Ammirati's classes?
 Why were certain macrolanguages used in Table 12?
What are the graduate student appeal and grievance procedures?
Is 'Literature & Repertoire' a one-time event or is it recurring?
 What is the main focus of the text?
What is the course code for Requirements for Embedded Systems and who are the instructors?
Why was the Computer Science Department exploding with research funding according to Morris?
What time does the course 'Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Analysis: Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Analysis B M 06:30PM 08:50PM DH 3302' start?
What is the date of the event?
What are the names and positions of the people responsible for administering the LTI Ph.D. degree?
What format is available for this event schedule?
 What is the purpose of using beam search in the PAR architecture?
 How does the severity of the speech disorder relate to the number of chainlink genes and chainlink connectivity according to Table 2?
What is the location of each instructor mentioned in the text?
Where does Morency work?
What is the course code for Foundations of Computer Systems taught by Bain?
 What does the formulation suggest about the existence of a solution for separation?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who can be found on the Faculty page of Language Technologies Institute?
What is the date mentioned in the text?
 What models were compared in Table 2?
What was the result of Tartan Women's Cross Country Schedule in NCAA Mid-Atlantic Regional?
What is the course code for Elementary French I at Youngs 82103?
 Which age group has the highest frequency among the mentioned groups in the text?
How many colors are available for Nike Club Fleece Crew at this store?
What are the different types of faculty mentioned in the text?
What is the course name and instructor for Chalacheva's class?
What is covered under 'Grading Options'?
What is the location of Cove's classes?
What are the days of the week when each course is held?
What is the duration of leave of absence, military or public service?
What are the days and times of the week when Willard teaches in CMB at Doha, Qatar Affara?
 What is the main focus of the evaluation method lexicographic precision (lexiprecision) introduced in the text?
What is the date of the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Brandeis?
What are the names of the teachers teaching Lec 2 and Lecture 3 of Concepts of Mathematics (21124)?
Who teaches Quantum Computation and Quantum Information Theory in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the class times and location of CIT Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Design Project 3-24?
Who are the students for Shields, Van Hoesen B's elective studio?
What is the name of the course that starts at 04:00 PM and takes place in CMB 1030, Doha, Qatar?
What is the course code for the course offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 09:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
Where is Kaveh Wojtowich from?
Who can join the Carnegie Mellon Cheerleading Program?
Who can use the CMU Soccer Field?
 What is the main issue that direct speech-to-speech translation (S2ST) models usually face?
What is the course being offered at 12:00 PM - 01:20 PM on Tuesday?
What was the result of the Men's Golf team's performance at the NCAA Preview event?
How many authors are listed in this text?
What are the locations and times for the three meetings mentioned in the text?
When and where are the classes of Elementary German I being held?
 How are the datasets used in the study made available?
What is the name of the instructor for the Independent Study course?
What is the purpose of 'Contact Us' section in the text according to the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Production Prep: Ottone in Villa?
 In Level-4 of the fetch object task, what challenge was introduced?
 What is the vocal tract viewed as in the text?
What is the name of the course taught by Howell at A1 T 03:30PM - 04:50PM?
What are the credits for Chorus?
What are the two courses being offered by iii Engineering Core A and Business Core A?
What is one way Carnegie Mellon University serves students?
What does 'interruptions in making progress toward the degree as defined by the academic program' mean?
What is the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
How many credits do Supervised Reading in Condensed Matter Physics and Thesis Research have respectively?
What is the website link to access more information about parking at CMU?
What is the minimum QPA required to remain in good standing with the MCDS committee?
Who are the academic programs represented by the following individuals?
 How are the baseline models pre-processing their input data before training?
What are the names of the instructors for Information Systems 1-12?
In what city are Tarr's Principles of Child Development classes held?
What are the names and locations of all classes taught by Instructor TBA H?
 How is a feedback model trained to minimize the agreement loss?
What is the name of the instructor for 'Arguments and Logical Analysis' in the Philosophy department?
What is the purpose of the Kiltie Marching Band?
 What is the approximate balance suggested by the Chinchilla scaling law between model size and data?
 What does the baseline AVDR system consist of?
Where does Hertz offer Health Law 4.0 course?
How do you hope students feel during their time at CMU?
How do students log on to SIO?
What are the names of all the courses listed in this text?
What is Arli Tilves and Jeff Brown's roles in Men's Swimming & Diving?
What did Herb Simon predict about computers in 1956?
 What new possibilities does the research open up for advancing low-latency translation systems?
What is the purpose of UHS at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is the event 'Production: Performance' located?
At what times and locations did C T teach their classes?
What is the course title of the class taught by Lamont B in room TEP 2611 at the University of Pittsburgh?
When and where does Undergraduate Research in Philosophy take place?
What is the course code for Hostile Environments: The Politics of Immigration and Refugee Law?
What does E-Bill refer to in SIO?
What is the class name for 57189?
 What is the title and publication date of the paper by K. Seki and team on text-to-speech synthesis?
Where and when is the All-Atlantic Regional taking place?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What are the days and times when the course 'Introduction to Accounting: 9.0' is held?
How many library liaisons, consultants, and information specialists are available to assist students at the University Libraries?
What is the significance of Section 508 in relation to visual-perception based CAPTCHAs?
 Why is it not always feasible to take actual physical measurements of vocal fold oscillations?
What is the purpose of the Wright-Rogal Chapel at Carnegie Mellon?
When does Biomedical Engineering Systems Modeling and Analysis take place in Fall 2018?
When and where does Independent Study with Derdenger take place?
What are the names and course codes for Paulisick Ammirati's classes?
What are the course codes and their respective days, times, and locations for Strauss's Python Programming II class?
 What types of objects are included in the dataset?
What is the name of the production mentioned in the text?
What does 'legitimate educational interests' refer to?
Is it permitted for MIIS students to have a Reduced Course Load?
What is the location of the first class in the text?
Where and when does Professor Hines teach Stagecraft II?
Who is the instructor for Major Studio (Organ) 9.0 A?
What are the three courses offered by Mechanical Engineering Co-op in this semester?
 What was included in the panel of 30 samples provided to participating laboratories?
 What physical process do physical models of phonation attempt to explain?
What is the URL of the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
What is the name of the program described in this handbook?
What is the location of the Parking and Transportation Services office in relation to the University Center?
Who are the instructors involved in directing class A for 'A Doll's House'?
What is the location of Wu's class?
When and where is Personalized Online Learning held?
Which courses are taught by Professor Yasko in this schedule?
What is the purpose of encouraging students with disabilities to self-identify?
Where is Spacagna AD located and what are its abbreviations?
 What type of model was found to be successful in generating values in the study?
What is the location of Pittsburgh in relation to these individuals?
How can students use a printer/copier in the School of Computer Science?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
What is the purpose of the A.1.4 section on the Carnegie Mellon University website?
Who teaches at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Saxophone NC?
Which production preparation activities are Penelope involved in?
What is the source of this information?
What is the course code for Gomez's Special Topics: Mazes?
In which city does Casale teach Health Care Quality 4.0?
What are the names of the people who teach Tepper College Honors Thesis I and II?
What is the name of the course offered by Jayan at ANS 106?
 How many numbers are greater than 80?
Where is Studio B located in relation to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who recognizes The Kiltie Band?
What is the course name and instructor for Design 12.0?
What is the course code of the course taught by Professor Johnson?
Where is the Intro to Probability Modeling being held?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
Who teaches Physical Technical Systems I (90719)?
Why was it a politically fraught issue in CMU?
 Why is it mentioned that error rates are not enough to evaluate OCR systems?
 Why does the text mention the inclusion of heterogeneous data sources like books and web?
 What is the main objective of the learning problem in the Im2Sp model?
What is the purpose of having a separate section for Home events?
Who are the lighting designers for 'A Little Night Music'?
When and where are the Carnegie Scenic classes held?
What are the names of the classes being offered by Weild at PCA on A TR from 2:00 PM to 4:50 PM?
What are the policies regarding leave of absence in LTI Academic Polices?
What does the author consider as important in maintaining respect within an academic community?
What is the name of the course that starts at 1:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
Who are the instructors conducting the lectures at MI 357 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is included in Appendix A of this handbook?
Who made the spin-out happen for a School of Computer Science?
What are some areas where Reddy's research interests expanded?
What is the name of the teacher who teaches Advanced Hot Glass: 3.0 and Introduction to Flameworking: TBA B?
Who are the instructors teaching at O and Q timeslots?
What are the names of the music studies programs mentioned in this text that focus on non-orchestral instruments?
 How many orders did the customer profile on the shopping website have within a span of two years?
 What was used to achieve WER 2.2 according to the text?
What is Late Graduation in this context?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sun, Apr/16 at 10:30 a.m.?
What is the title of the seminar being offered by Wynn in Semester 9?
What is the name of the robot that Whittaker's team built to help clean up Unit 2 at Three Mile Island?
Who are the instructors for the 3:00 PM class on Friday?
 What do the error rates on selected sub-structures indicate?
What is the course code for Study Abroad?
What are the course names and their respective credit hours for Akinci 12791, Akinci 12792, and Advanced Independent Study: Advanced Independent Study?
 How does OWSM differ from Whisper in terms of supported translation directions?
When do the applications for Machine Learning Joint Ph.D., Master of Science in Information Technology - Privacy Engineering, and Master of Software Engineering Application open?
What is the course code for MCS Interdisciplinary 38050 Study Abroad?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
What is the name of Solfege I class?
What is the topic of Inês Lynce's speech at Técnico Alumni Talks – Women Edition 2024?
 What task interference is discussed in the text?
What is the course title for class HBH 1005 listed on Tuesday?
 What was used for normalization of titres in the study?
What is the course '94801 Acting for Management 6.0 A1 MW 03:30PM 04:50PM HBH 2008 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Murphy B2 MW 03:30PM 04:50PM HBH 2009 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Murphy C2 MW 02:00PM 03:20PM HBH 2009 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Murphy' about?
What are the topics covered in Aztec to Zacatecas: Mesoamerican & Spanish Colonial Arch of Mexico & Guatemala?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
What are the requirements for students taking internships with units attached?
 Who was supported by NSF Graduate Research Fellowship grants DGE1745016 and DGE2140739?
What are the days and times of the Graduate Seminar (course code 03750) in the text?
What was the topic of her master's work?
 What is the average value for Austronesian languages in the given data?
What does Shaw mean by 'the critical path'?
What types of crimes are included in the annual campus security and fire safety report?
What were the subjects that Herbert A. Simon's research ranged from?
What are the names of the courses offered in Persuasive Design and User-Centered Research and Evaluation E?
What are the two types of leadership feedback sessions offered by Hermann?
When and where is Cybersecurity Policy and Governance class held?
What is the name of the subject being taught in Stagecraft Lighting (3 units) F4?
 From where are the images and captions sourced in the study?
When was the kickoff event for the Exploratory project 'Signo' held?
Who teaches the 'Computer Vision' course and what is its course code?
What is the title of the first event's location?
Where is the Music Studies Studio located?
Who are the instructors for Reasoning with Data: Lec MWF 10:00AM 10:50AM MI AUD and Software Engineering Graduate Reading & Research?
What are the class timings for Nanostructured Materials?
What are the three main milestones in PhD dissertation process?
What is the course code for Nanoparticles?
What are the days and times of Digital Ethnography course offered by Guidi?
Who is teaching the 'Production Prep: Schauspieldirektor/Telephone' session for Dramaturgy?
Where does Rule C teach in POS 151, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does active retrieval augmented generation differ from single-time retrieval augmented generation?
When is the second lecture for Basic Experimental Physics?
What do students learn with MLT program?
When is Senior Seminar in Modern Languages held?
What was the first ACM SIGACT Gödel Prize awarded for?
What is the website for Carnegie Mellon's Athletics Department?
What are the three classes being offered at the specified time in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are some of the services provided by The HUB?
What is the name of the course taught by Carley at POS 153?
At what time does Intermediate German I take place?
 What was the response to developers who did not wish their source code to be used for training code LLMs?
 What is the impact of CD8+TILs on AITL compared to other tumors?
What is Daphne Ippolito's email address?
What happens if a student does not meet any potential advisor during the first month?
What are the dates and times for class 90824?
What is the name of the project that students are required to complete in their final semester?
 What is the name of the method proposed in the paper?
When are most of the events happening in February 2024 according to the calendar?
Where is the location of the class 'Financial Statements & Analysis for Architectural Engineering'?
Where is Grace Lee from?
Where and when does Boevers' Entertainment Rigging class take place?
How can users access other pages on this website?
What is the name of the first instructor listed in this text?
What are the names of the courses held by Varodayan B and C at INI DEC in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the role of Stacey Young in administering the LTI Ph.D. degree?
What are the dates and times of Network and Internet Security 12.0 Z TBA DNM DNM HBH?
How many violations are needed for dismissal from the graduate program according to the text?
What is the name of the instructor for Anime - Visual Interplay between Japan and the World?
What is the course name for Klatzky 85808?
What are the names of the instructors listed at the end of this text?
What are the names of the two courses offered by Professor Briem?
What is the location of BH 140A?
What are the meeting times and location of the First Year Immigration Course?
Which office provides support for graduate students' academic and research needs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the piece composed by Wu O?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule that have 'Rapid Prototype' or 'Design' in their title?
What is the URL of the Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
What time does the 'Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Brooklyn Nine-Nine' course take place?
Under what circumstances can a school or college defer the lapse of a student's program?
Who are the instructors for Psychology Research Training at TBA TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
Where is the location of WEH 5201?
What is the location of the workshop where Krishnamurti V. taught?
What is the email address provided by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs for graduate students to reach out?
Where does the first class listed in the schedule take place?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Wednesday from 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM?
What was Reddy's role before he became Dean of the School of Computer Science?
What is the event that starts at 10:00 AM EST on Monday, March 4th?
What is the name of the undergraduate internship offered by Computational Biology department at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the Habitat Synthetic Scenes Dataset (HSSD) comprised of?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
What is a leave of absence according to section 6.2.6?
When and where is the Graduate Seminar taking place?
What does 'inspect and review' mean in relation to students' education records?
 How is the topic of physical HRQOL after upper extremity (UE) transplant divided in the text?
What are the two courses being offered by Dayal in Finite Elements in Mechanics I?
Where do students participating in the dual-degree program spend their first year?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA Z?
What is the name of the golf club where the Tartan Women's Golf team will play their second match?
 What can be inferred about voice chains based on the data in Table A1?
 What is the loss function constructed in Minimum Word Error Rate (MWER) training aimed at minimizing?
What services does the University Police Department provide?
Where was the CMU Diving Invitational held?
What are the course codes for Stage Rigging Concepts and Introduction to Lighting Design Skills?
What is the purpose of the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) in the Division of Student Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of the 'Conference' event listed?
Which type of event is highlighted in bold on this calendar?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
Who are the instructors teaching at DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the class that meets on Monday from 11:00AM-12:20PM in room HBH 1204?
What is the purpose of the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
 What is the goal of the work by Tolga Bolukbasi and team?
When does Connecting with the Pittsburgh Community take place?
Where and when does the 'Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems' course take place?
What is the purpose of CMU Alert?
 What was the additional hours of data that XLS-R was pretrained on compared to w2v-bert?
 What potential solution is suggested for exploiting text-only resources in E2E model training?
 Which pool was selected for normalization as more laboratories returned a valid titre for it?
What is the maximum time frame to complete a Masters degree in Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): Scenic Design?
What is the name of Justin Yi's high school in comparison to Francis Parker's high school?
What is the name of the fourth course mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the importance of integrating music features into the proposed method?
 How does Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding compare to maximum-likelihood decoding?
What is the main goal of the SMART program?
 What did the author mention about the desert tour environment?
What is the main focus of the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon?
 Under what condition does CUTTLEFISH proceed with factorization for low-rank model training?
What are the days and times when the 'Introduction to Robot Learning' course is held?
What is the topic of the panel discussion happening on October 11?
What is the course code for MCS Interdisciplinary Study Abroad?
Where are they going during Spring Break?
What is the goal of the LTI Catalogue?
Who teaches the other class on Tuesday and Thursday at 04:00PM?
Why are international students required to apply for Curricular Practical Training?
What is the duration of interruption that can be covered by deferring All But Dissertation status?
 What dataset is used for upscaling the Arabic tokens?
What are the names of the courses that start at 02:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
When does 'Chemistry and Sustainability' start in the schedule?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
How does email differ from print when it comes to sharing information?
What is Vitone teaching?
 What is the sum of the first 50 numbers in the list?
What are the names of the people who live at the end of the list?
What are the days, times, and instructors of Physics 33100 Basic Experimental Physics?
What are the names of the three people teaching Voice for the Stage I at PCA A35?
 What are some of the models listed in the table for End-to-end QA results on Hotpot-QA?
Who teaches the course 57643 Diverse Populations in Inclusive Settings?
 What was considered predictive of the degree of speech problems associated with a syndrome?
Who are the authors of this text?
Who are the two people listed as B for Elective Studio (Euphonium) and Elective Studio (Tuba)?
What are the instructors' names for each course?
Is Damiani's class a required or elective course?
What are the days/times for the course 'Generative AI Lab'?
What time does Hansen's independent study start?
When did the performance take place?
What is Carnegie Mellon's stance on transgender students participating in intercollegiate athletics?
Who is eligible for extension of the time to degree limit?
Where are Advanced Quantum Physics II and Introduction to Solid State Physics taught?
 How does CUTTLEFISH determine if the curves of the estimated ranks have stabilized?
When was Practicum in Computer Science written?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Advanced DP3: Special Topic: Painting The Unconscious class?
In which room does Berges teach his class?
 What is the similarity between the results of intent classification on SLURP and the ASR task based on the text?
 Where can the corpus and query dataset be obtained from?
When does the 'Fundamentals of Costume Design' class take place?
What are the different locations mentioned in the text?
Who is the instructor for the Trumpet class at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of this text?
 What is the task tackled by the proposed model in the text?
 What modifications were made to the original TFPSNet model in the proposed USES model?
What are the names of the classes in the given schedule?
Where do both Francis Parker and Justin Yi live compared to each other?
When and where will Literature and Repertoire: 3-6 be held?
 What components showed a positive correlation with D50 due to their limited hygroscopicity?
Who is teaching Beginning Piano Practicum I?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses held in room TEP 2700 at different times?
What happens if someone fails to complete Form I-9 within three business days at CMU?
 How does the secondary transfer length of residual prestress vary with concrete strength?
What are the programs that do not follow any early deadlines and have an application fee of $100?
Where are the two courses taught by Shreve being held?
What is the course code for Speech I?
What is the name of the class that Handel B teaches at PH 125C on Monday from 09.30 AM to 11.50 AM?
 What tasks will the work be extended to in the future?
 In FedAVG w/ block, how are the clients utilized for training?
What is the course code for 'Taxes and Business Strategy'?
What are the requirements for MS students in terms of computers?
 What are the three main reasons identified for why kNN-LM performs better than standard LMs?
What are the days and times for English Diction (57220) and French Diction (57222) in this text?
 What is the distinction between the proposed decoder-only architecture and conventional encoder-decoder ASR models?
Who did the Task Force partner with to develop the graphics for the mascot?
What are the days and times that Thomas Taborga is teaching Dynamic Teams?
What are the course codes for Intermediate Electricity and Magnetism II and Thermal Physics II?
When does Berardone teach his/her Business and Marketing Strategy course?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
What are the standard program lengths for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many away games did Tartan Women's Tennis team win for the 2023-24 season?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
 What problem do the preference-based methods, especially DPO and DPO (ref. free), face according to the text?
What is the name of the university where these athletes compete?
What are the course codes for the courses that start with 'MS' in the text?
What are the days and times of Movement III class?
When and where does the Elementary Russian II class take place?
Who teaches the class 'Experience Design'?
 What did the researchers find when checking for amino acid substitutions associated with baloxavir and favipiravir resistance?
What is the name of the course that uses AI in industrial applications?
What was the final score of the Men's Basketball game against #12 Case Western Reserve?
When is 'Contemporary American Fiction' class held?
Where and when will Chamber Ensemble: Low Brass B be held?
What are the course codes for Larocca F and Larocca G in this text?
What is Symposium 2023 about?
 What are the trade-offs mentioned in the text related to the application of large and complex ASR models?
When is the Men's Tennis game against UAA Championship scheduled for Thu, Apr/25?
What are the names and course codes of the two classes taught by Litt?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed in the schedule?
What is required before presenting the dissertation proposal?
What are the names of the buildings where Liu G, Feng K, Newman M, Chiu N, Yang O, Jiang P, Yu R, Xu S teach their courses?
What is the role of innovation in bringing about these benefits?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Service Management: Go-To-Marketing Strategy and Operations'?
What was the processing speed of the IBM 650 computer when it arrived on campus?
Who teaches Probability and Statistics for Business Applications at 8:00 AM on Tuesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the locations, times and subjects of Tribendis's classes?
What is the course name and instructor's name for the class that takes place from 9:00 AM to 10:20 AM on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
What is the name of the first location mentioned?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
I am in a five-year program and will be awarded a master's degree. Do I enter this in the Undergraduate or Graduate section?
 What task is considered to be relatively challenging, leading to the fine-tuning of all models except vanilla BERTBASE for 5 epochs instead of 3 epochs?
When does the class 'Practical Unstructured Data Analytics' take place?
Do you need to upload official transcripts from each university attended at the time of application submission?
What are the names of the courses taught by McCall-Kiley and Goranson?
What is the location of each course offered in this schedule?
What are the names of the instructors for Lean Innovation Lab VAR A and Tech Strategy for Policy?
What is the role of the Program Director according to the given text?
What is the purpose of External Projects Production Mgt in the schedule?
What is the course name for Gogolak C1?
What are the names of the courses taught by Lassman in HBH 1204?
 Which third-party dataset search engines are compared in the text?
Where can students find additional resources on campus?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Who is Kemal Oflazer?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon Code?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at HL A10 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is 'Hot Glass II' held, and what are its timings?
What is the name of the performance by Thompson, Curtis, Story, Cardenes, Vosburgh?
What is Raj Reddy's title and department at Language Technologies Institute?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the location of the Beginning Tennis class?
What is the purpose of Jared L. Cohon University Center?
What are the application instructions for graduate admissions at this institution?
 In what scenarios did the usage of a highly-weighted ToM listener lead to significant fluency gains?
Do applicants need to send transcripts or test scores by mail at the time of application?
What is the name of the instructor who will be teaching the class on 'Advanced AI and Business Strategy'?
 Why were MO algorithms chosen for the implementation in GIDroid?
Where can students find more information about university health insurance requirements and fees?
Which section of this handbook discusses the policy regarding consensual intimate relationships among undergraduate students?
What is the topic of Lee's presentation?
In what year was the MIIS Capstone Project completed?
 What is the accuracy of DSR-LM-DeBERTa model according to Table 5?
What are the dynamic interfaces in CTAT?
What school does Kaitlyn Montague attend?
What can be inferred about future events or developments based on the given date?
What is the sport that was played at 10:00 a.m. on March 24th?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Electronic Devices and Analog Circuits?
What is the role of MCDS program administrators in securing seats for its students in other courses?
What program did Jonathan Schaeffer lead that seems to be unbeatable at checkers?
 What type of Corpus is CSTR VCTK?
What topic does the course 'New Pedagogies: A Multiple-Making Approach to Inquiry in Craft + Computation' cover?
What are the names of the instructors for courses 57501 Major Studio (Piano) 9.0 A, 57503 Major Studio (Harp) 9.0 A and 57505 Major Studio (Violin) 9.0 A?
What is the main focus of Scone?
What are the locations and times of Tennakoon's classes?
What type of camp is the Men's Basketball Camp Elite Camp?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Fridays from 09:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room NSH 1305?
What is the name of the instructor for Puzzles, Games, and Problem Solving course?
What kind of technologies does Computing Services provide for classrooms across campus?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
Who are the instructors for M.F.A. Studio I?
Who is teaching Design Research?
Who teaches the Understanding and Critiquing Generative Computer Vision course, where is it held, and what are its meeting times?
What is the policy on double counting courses at MIIS?
Where does the seminar 'The American Railroad: Decline and Renaissance in the Age of Deregulation' take place?
What are the days, times, and locations of the courses?
How many weeks can gestational parents take off under the Short-Term Accommodation?
What are the days and times of Grossmann's M.S. Research class?
 How are non-differentiable temporal acoustic parameters dealt with in the text?
As an ROTC student in India, what skills did Raj learn?
What are the different roles listed in the schedule?
What does 'matriculation' mean in this context?
What does a person need to do if they want to log in to their account on this page?
What is the purpose of the Future Faculty Program at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What are some standard preprocessing steps mentioned in the text?
What time does the Industry Research Project start?
What recreational facilities are available in the University Center at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering?
What does PCHE stand for?
 What is the purpose of reserving 20 languages for few-shot learning scenarios in the training sets?
How did Berliner's former students describe his reputation?
How can one contact the Language Technologies Institute?
 What trend do both GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product show in terms of BC column concentration in Northeast India?
What are the names of the instructors for Harmony I?
Who is teaching the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Production Management' in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the instructor for class A that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
Who are the instructors for lecture 12.0 at 4:00 PM on Wednesday?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered by Parno at HOA 160?
What are the different categories of information available on Language Technologies Institute's website?
What are three different ways to share information?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in room SH236 at 4:30 PM?
 What is a limitation of the method discussed in the text?
What are the days and times for the course 'Piano Maintenance I 6.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Stumpf'?
What are the titles of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
 How is the performance and complexity of the HJ-Pruning-MAC method described in the text?
In which sections are the accommodations for individuals with disabilities mentioned?
Where and when is lecture 1 of 'Sign and Development' held?
 How many volatile compounds were identified in the samples analyzed?
What instrument does Ferla study at the Advanced Music Studies Studio?
How many units are required for an LTI course according to this text?
What is the purpose of including transfer courses on a university transcript?
Where and when does Peteanu teach the lecture of Introduction to Modern Chemistry I?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on the Language Technologies Institute website?
When does the student have to complete an internship?
 What type of license is the article published under?
What are the days of the week for each class listed in this schedule?
 What is the reason provided in the text for adopting multiple codebooks in the system design?
 What method led to the greatest increase in automatic metrics on all three test sets?
What are the locations for each class in this schedule?
What is the purpose of the Inter-University Graduate Students of Color Series (SOC) and PhD SOC Network?
When is the Production Prep session for VAR Directing led by Penelope held?
Will reviewers know if an applicant has been granted a fee waiver?
Where was the Composite Schedule located?
What is the location mentioned in the first line of the text?
 Which city is the second largest in the USA by area?
Who are the instructors for Exploring Modern Mathematics course?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Doha, Qatar?
 What are the contributions of the proposed method for dialogue discourse parsing?
What are the names of the instructors for CEE Challenges: Design in a Changing World?
How many students are mentioned in this text?
 Why is length normalization applied when comparing finished hypotheses based on score?
Where is Mini-Course in Special Relativity being taught?
What are the days and times for Advanced Interaction Design classes?
Which professor is teaching Health Psychology at 12:30 PM on Tuesdays in room BH 336B?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching Graduate Seminar 0.0 A F 03:30PM 04:50PM PH 100 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is Richard Stern and what is his position at Language Technologies Institute?
When and where is the class 'DEEP FAKE, AI and Beyond: Posthumanism & Contemporary Art' held?
What is the name of the instructor teaching 'Special Topics in ICT: Recommender Systems' course?
What is the location of Cervesato's fourth class at GHC CLSTR in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of the ninth undergraduate research project mentioned in the text?
What time does Eshelman start his Production Prep for Costume Production on Wednesdays?
What is the course code for Leadership and Innovation Management?
What is a symbolic model checker?
When is the Production Prep: Grown Ups class for Stage Management held?
What is the process for changing a student's final grade?
 What hyperparameter is used in the local agreement two (LA2) method for stability detection?
What is the name of the class that starts at 02:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is Special Topics: Additive Manufacturing Processing and Product Development about? What are the days and times of this class?
How many independent study courses are there in total?
What is the name of the university where the Kiltie Band continues a tradition of excellence?
Which sub-section under A.4 Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety focuses on promoting wellness on campus?
 What kind of positional encodings does Jais utilize?
When and where is the Systems Analysis: Environmental Policy course being offered?
What is the name of the person who wrote this thesis?
What are the names of the courses offered by John Carver?
What should students do before considering a Formal Leave of Absence?
 What is the key principle behind finite element models in simulating vocal fold motion?
Name three classes offered at Carnegie Mellon University.
What are the topics covered in Operations Strategy?
 What type of experiments were conducted by the authors in this study?
What are the class codes and locations for Cancer Biology and Topics in Research 1-2?
When and where does the 'Special Topics: Market Engineering and Applications' course take place?
Where is the event 'Literature and Repertoire: Euphonium' located?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Embedded Systems'?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What is the course description for each class in this schedule?
What are the course codes for the courses offered on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday from 02:30 PM to 04:50 PM?
When does the application for fall 2023 open for Master's Programs in Machine Learning?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Fundamentals of Joinery & Furniture Design' at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title of the course being taught?
Which instructor teaches 'Writing for Political Science and Policy'?
 What is the input to the logistic regression model for error rate estimation?
What is the course name taught by Zapanta and Chung on Tuesday from 03:30 PM to 04:50 PM in room POS 153?
 What are SR and MR in Table 6 used for in the evaluation of error spans produced by LLMs?
What are the topics covered in Data Mining?
How can students get help if they have questions about the application process or need assistance?
 What does ΔLP (𝜋𝑞, 𝜋 ′ 𝑞) agree in sign with?
Can graduate students who need additional undergraduate courses elect the pass/fail option for these courses?
What is the URL for the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs website?
What is the course code and instructor for Independent Study in Entrepreneurship offered at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What are the language attributes associated with GPT-4?
What is the name of the course offered in Critical Studies: Curating as Artistic Practice?
When was the late drop voucher system implemented?
When and where is the Thermodynamics of Materials taking place?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Nuclear and Particle Physics'?
What is the location for the Multimodal Machine Learning course?
In which room does the Advanced Undergraduate Research start?
 What problem related to token alignment is mentioned in the context of using AMR parses?
 What are some alternative input units that have been explored in NMT systems?
 What types of hateful speech are evaluated for the DynaHate dataset in terms of toxicity?
Where does Fischhoff teach his emerging technologies and international law course?
Where can one find the statement of assurance at Carnegie Mellon University?
How can students access up-to-date shuttle and escort schedules, pick-up/drop-off locations, routes, and usage policies?
What are the class names for Dejeu?
What is Employment Eligibility Verification?
What is the role of the Office of the Dean of Students in supporting graduate students?
What is the name of Wu's Computational Medicine course?
Can a course satisfy requirements in two degree programs?
What is the course 'Reading Into a New China II' about?
What is cheating according to the Academic Integrity Policy?
 Why would using a very long filter for time-domain Wiener filtering prevent separation?
What is the course code for 'Full-Stack Software Development for Engineers' and where does it meet?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Monday at 6:30 PM in Modern Data Management?
 What type of errors are more prevalent in MQTTS compared to VITS, based on the text?
What are the main categories of student awards offered by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
What kind of news does LTI share on their website?
What is the name of the course for Probability and Statistical Inference I?
What are the courses that can be counted as approved qualifying courses for SCS relevant to MIIS degree other than LTI?
 What exercises are best to avoid chronic diseases?
What are the names of the people who will be working on each day for Gajic's production?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for the courses offered at HBH 1004 on Monday and Wednesday?
What are the names of the buildings where these instructors teach?
 What is the significance of the Task 1 metric M1?
What is the date and time of Carnegie Mellon Invitational?
Who are the authors of the text?
What happens if you use the work of others without proper citation?
What are the days and times of the Production Prep class for Scenic Design?
What is the name of the instructor for the course 'Production Prep: Love and Money'?
What happens if a student takes an undergraduate course for credit?
 How is the risk of a candidate decoding calculated in Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding?
 In the experiments, what effect did larger vocabularies have when complementing KALE with BM25?
What is the name of the visiting students program offered by this institution?
What is the annual fee for this doctoral course in Information Sciences and Technology?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about professional practice in product innovation?
What is the purpose of the 'Research' section on this page?
How can a student satisfy the programming proficiency requirement?
What is the name of the course offered by Sullivan in period C?
Where is the location of Howard Advanced Music Studies Studio?
Does the MCDS degree program provide financial aid, tuition waivers or scholarships to its graduate students?
Who coordinates the public announcement of the thesis proposal presentation?
What is the name of the course that will be held in GHC 5222 from 04:00 PM to 04:50 PM?
Where is the Cognitive Tutor Authoring Tools documentation now located?
 Why is procedural text chosen for the study on relation extraction?
 Where can you find the full results tables of the text2code experiments?
What is the course code and title of the Graduate Student Internship offered by Instructor Avigad?
What is the name of the instructor for both courses?
What does the integrated curriculum include?
What is the role of John Papinchak in relation to Student Privacy Rights and FERPA?
 Which model was used to initialize the policy adapter for the dialogue safety control task?
What is the course name for lecture 1 taught by Ada Saad at GHC 4401?
What is the name of the course taught by Laduke PA at DNM DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the minimum units required for a student in the program per semester to be considered full-time or part-time?
What are the names of the instructors for Calculus in Three Dimensions 10.0 Lec 1 and their respective class timings?
What are the names of the courses offered in this schedule?
 What is the primary contribution of the TDT model according to the text?
 How do the spectra generated by using fixed-duration STFT window and hop sizes for different sampling frequencies differ?
How can students check for expired meters on campus?
 What are some scenarios outlined in the text where the Jais model should not be used?
 What is the %LT value for the LightGCN model?
What are the names of the students listed in alphabetical order?
What was the schedule of events for Women's Swimming and Diving during the NCAA Championships?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses listed in the schedule?
Why are graduate students encouraged to consult other resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is Appendix A of the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook about?
 According to the text, how does GILL perform compared to Stable Diffusion on PartiPrompts?
What was the result of the Paul Short Invitational for the women's cross-country team?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the courses listed in the schedule?
What are the days/times for Davis B2's class?
When and where does Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems lecture take place?
How can students get assistance with computing-related issues?
Where is the University Police Department located?
 In what context is the prediction made by the I3D encoder?
Which office is responsible for maintaining safety and security on campus?
What is the validity period of Affiliate ID Cards?
What are the class timings for Painting for the Theatrical Designer?
In which city does Bain offer Graduate Teaching Internship 1-18 A?
Where was the logical pathway for going from fantasy to real science according to Norma Rashid?
Which player's hometown/high school is Irvine, Calif. / Sage Hill School?
Which courses are part of the Breadth Courses: Machine Learning category?
 According to the text, what could happen if back-translation (BT) is trained without a tagging strategy for high-resource languages (HRLs)?
What are the days and times for Learning through Cultural Practices and Community B?
What is the course Histories of Urban Design about?
What are the days and times of Salakhutdinov's Introduction to Convex Optimization course?
What are the instructors' names of all courses listed in this text?
What is the 'Grandfather' policy in LTI?
 What is the number of real images in the Cityscapes dataset?
 How does FastSpeech2 differ from Transformer-TTS in terms of model architecture?
What benefits are available to domestic partners of students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What does 'MW' stand for in this context?
How many sections are there in this text?
 Is an Institutional Review Board Statement applicable to this study?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for HBH 95897 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) offer for students?
How many meals were provided for those in need according to the recent post on Facebook?
What is the main purpose of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the course name that starts with 'Privacy by Design'?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches at 57988 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are some of the international collaborations that PDEEC can integrate into?
What is Directed Study requirement for MIIS-16 and MIIS-21 programs?
What should I do if I have taken the GRE test more than once?
Where and when is Special Topics in Theory: Fundamentals of MDPs and Reinforcement Learning held?
What are the time slots for Stage Management class of Macbeth's External Projects?
What is the name of the lecture held by Instructor TBA at From the Pearl of Arabia to the City of Steel: Image, Place, and Meaning?
What is the name of the instructor for the Graduate Reading and Research course that starts at 08:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Music 57105 Elective Studio (Jazz Piano I Class)?
Who is teaching Topics in the History of the African Diaspora?
 What does the term IPI stand for in the text?
What is the name of the document where you can find information about the role of ORIC?
Where do Walkington's classes take place and what are their names?
Can you earn a degree in Intelligent Information Systems from any university?
What is the course code for 'CIT Undergraduate Projects'?
Where is Commercialization and Innovation: Strategy taught by Meyer Grelli held?
What is the purpose of providing office space for full-time MS students at the Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the average SEScore for the Indo-European-Other language group?
When and where are the Media & Communication Design I course being offered?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Japanese I and Intermediate French I?
 What are the architectural modifications made to ResNet-18 and ResNet-50?
Do the libraries offer online resources and services? If so, what kind?
What is Carnegie Mellon's approach towards a diverse community?
 What percentage of participants would want reviewers to justify their petitions for more experiments, even if they had not been asked for expensive experiments themselves?
What is extended or longer-than-standard completion?
Which department provides key support for academic and research activities at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How does the (D75 − D25)/D50 in urban Beijing compared to that in a rural background site?
Where can you find information about aerobics classes at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the dates and times of the classes listed in the text?
What is the purpose of Graduate Student Assembly at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the people involved in Shields and Guild's literature and repertoire event?
What is the requirement to use Skibo Gym and the University Center’s recreational facilities?
What is the name of the course taught by Avigad P?
Who should withdraw from the university according to the text?
Who teaches Observation and Music and Triads: Before/Beyond Roman Numerals in Western Music?
What is the name of Herbert Simon's autobiography?
Where is the lecture 'Fundamentals of Programming and Computer Science 12.0' held in terms of room number?
What is the title of the advanced natural language processing course?
What is the validity period of Affiliate ID cards?
What are the course names of the two online courses offered in Spanish?
What time does Brown's Style take place in Pittsburgh?
 In the IE experiments section, what does Figure 9 show?
What is the policy regarding reservations at Carnegie Mellon's tennis courts?
What is the course title of the third class listed in the schedule?
How many swimmers are on the roster for the 2023-24 season?
What is the purpose of publishing such a roster?
What is the course code and title of the course offered on Wednesday at 09:30 AM?
 How many parameters do the GPT-J and BLOOM models have?
 What primarily influences surface downwelling shortwave radiation?
Who must approve an independent study course?
Who is teaching the 'Project Management for Engineering and Construction' class?
 What is the cost measurement difference between FA relation extraction and PA in the text?
 How is the overall AGKD loss LAGKD formulated?
What are the names of the two Global and Distributed Teams classes mentioned in the text?
What type of file format is used to create this calendar feed?
What is the purpose of ID Cards according to section 7.3?
What are the names of the people listed in this text?
What is the Reasonable Person Principle (RPP) in the School of Computer Science?
What are the class times for Patel's Algorithms and Advanced Data Structures course?
What is the purpose of a Capstone project or thesis for MIIS students?
What is the name of the person who teaches at F?
Do I have to memorize music?
Where was the Mount Union Tune Up held?
What are the names of the students who will be performing in Music Education Thesis?
What is the course name and instructor for Cognitive Robotics?
What is the location of Bramlett's Cultural Roots: Chinese Language & Culture for Heritage Learners class at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who did the Task Force partner with to design the official Scotty costume?
What is the duration of a typical MCDS degree program?
What is the course title for class 82881?
What are the locations of the meetings in this text?
What is the purpose of the website bookstore.web.cmu.edu?
What are the additional requirements for students to satisfy the LTI Colloquium requirement?
Are there any other sources of information about Carnegie Mellon's requirements and policies?
Who teaches the Societal Computing Independent Study?
What are the two semesters when students can choose electives according to their interests?
Who is the instructor for Introduction to Mosaics?
Where is the University Police Department located?
What kind of support does Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) provide for students?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text that has an athletics program?
What is the name of the fourth meet on the schedule?
What are the course requirements to attain an MLT degree?
In which year did Simon, Newell, and Cliff Shaw design the Logic Theorist?
How does personal integrity contribute to an academic community?
 What are the four dimensions evaluated in the text?
When and where do the 'Production Prep: Penelope' courses take place?
What time does Philosophy Colloquium take place every week?
Is it mandatory for full-time degree-seeking students to have adequate medical insurance at Carnegie Mellon?
When and where does Multicultural Pittsburgh: VR Storytelling take place?
 What does the joint pruning method proposed in Sec. 3.1 aim to optimize?
What is the URL for policies related to late course drops and vouchers?
 What does the analysis reveal about LLMs in the context of multilingual machine translation?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Dieterich?
 How do multilingual language models perform in interpreting figurative language compared to English?
What are the dates of each independent study project?
What are the dates and times of Kesden's classes?
What are the new features in CTAT 4.3.0?
Who is Lori Levin at Carnegie Mellon University?
What does it mean when grading is considered as a matter of sound discretion?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Psychology with Oppenheimer B?
What is the purpose of a cookie according to the Cookie Policy?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
 What was the prompt given to GPT-4 in the study?
What are the names of the courses offered in Evaluation B and D?
What is the role of College Liaisons in supporting students according to the text?
What is the course code for Large Language Models Methods and Application?
 How did removing equipartitioning from KALE affect effectiveness and query latency?
What is the office location of Louis-Philippe Morency?
What is the name of the course being taught by Engineer B in room TEP1308 at 9:30 AM?
What are the course credits for Statics in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course offered in Cycling Core A2 TR 09:30AM 10:50AM?
When and where does Advanced Fiction Workshop take place?
Where and when was the course 'Music: Deep-Diving Artists and Genres' held?
What instrument is taught in Ferla Advanced Music Studies Studio?
What is the name of the event that took place at Bain S W from 2:00 PM to 2:50 PM?
What is the purpose of the Division of Student Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What time does Chamber Music Literature II start?
When was this text written?
How many students are enrolled in the Internship course taught by Cato?
How do I pay the application fee?
What are some research projects conducted at the Language Technologies Institute related to Computational Biology?
Who are the best people to ask to write a letter of recommendation for me?
How many individuals are listed as having taught at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual) for Clarinet LB and LA?
What is the page number mentioned for 'Employment Eligibility Verification' topic?
 What is the purpose of incremental pruning in the first attempt on incremental BWBS?
What is the total amount spent on research by Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science in 2013?
 What is the target domain performance using self-training?
What are the names of the courses taught by Laduke and Chiu?
 What type of questions does each utterance generally only mention a small fraction of slots?
How many units are required for completing a capstone project?
 Why is lexiprecision consistently preferred over the suffix 𝛿RR1 across all datasets?
Who teaches the E T lecture of 'Sign and Development'?
 What values were collected at baseline within a week prior to the first dose of anlotinib?
What did the RAD ROVER, or Rem, do during the TMI sweep up?
When is the class 'Culture for Heritage Learners 9.0' held?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the 'Electronic and Computer Music' course on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:00 AM to 8:50 AM in room HOA A10?
What is the name of the class that meets on Friday evenings at 7:00 PM at DH 2302?
 What was the effect of using normally or highly weighted ToM listeners on the length and complexity of utterances?
What is the name of the course taught by Ania D'Arms?
Which option is a traditional way of sharing content?
What is the course code for Introduction to Sustainable Energy Science?
What is ORIC's role in responsible conduct of research?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Placone and Burke?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What are the course codes for 80612 and 80747?
Which course teaches about the semantics for Natural Language Processing in this curriculum?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Fridays from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in PH 226B?
What is the name of the course that lasts for 1-24 credits?
Who teaches Principles of Functional Programming in Doha, Qatar?
What is the zip code of the city where class C takes place?
 What are some of the key features of OpenMatch-v2 compared to the previous version?
Where can additional information on financial issues for graduate students be found?
Why is it important to acknowledge prior knowledge?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): Costume Production?
What is the main topic discussed in the text?
 What is the significance of SELF-REFINE as mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times when the course 'Introduction to Modern Chemistry I' is held?
What is the location of Teadt's advanced music studies studio?
What was the outcome of the Tartans' performance at the Western PA Invitational held on January 27, 2024?
What does it mean when events are marked in bold in the Home section?
What is the course title for Anderson's class on cognitive modeling?
What are the names of the courses offered by Professor Offner, Bellah, and Cummings?
What time does Zhang A start his class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does the I3D encoder differ from the vanilla Transformer and static pruned models?
What is the duration of the study abroad program offered by Engineering & Public Policy?
 How is the visual content used to aid in recognition in the proposed approach?
What is the name of the organization that offers Internship Three for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD Students in San Jose, California?
What is the significance of learning NLP models from naturally occurring data?
Who is JIM MORRIS and what role did he play in Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
 What social biases can text generated by LLMs inadvertently perpetuate?
What is the location of Master of Computational Data Science according to this text?
What is the course code for Practicum in Physics offered by Deserno?
What is the purpose of providing a link to University Police in the text?
When and where does the last class listed in the schedule take place?
Who is Nate Peters?
What is the course taught by Peteanu in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Which office is responsible for assisting individuals with disabilities?
Where and when will Seminar IV: Capstone Project Research be held?
What are the names of the courses offered by Opie in Opera Production History?
 What is the main focus of the study described in the text?
According to MARY SHAW, when did time as we know it begin?
 What types of tasks does Pentathlon support with the help of Catwalk?
What are the names of the instructors for Logic and Mechanized Reasoning?
 What is the name of the upstream model referred to in the text?
What are the three courses offered by Bonaldi in TR 02:00PM - 03:45PM?
What are the main categories of student awards offered by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
 How many parameter decoder-only models were pretrained in the study?
Who is teaching Modern Regression?
What are the consequences for violating the Academic Integrity Policy?
What position does No. 23 Bay play?
Who are the teachers teaching at 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is the course name for section C?
What is the duration of the Advanced Music Studies Recital/Project course?
What are the students' responsibilities regarding prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures and referral to emergency room or specialists?
 What is the first part of the gradient of the TDT loss with respect to the token probabilities PT(v|t, u)?
What was the date and time of the men's tennis match between Case Western Reserve and Carnegie Mellon?
What type of file format is used to create this calendar feed?
What are the days and times for Lecture H of Principles of Computing?
When is VMD Systems Studio class held?
When and where does lecture 24200 take place?
What is the course title of Wood's class?
What is the location of Intermediate Deep Learning 12.0 A MWF 12:30PM 01:50PM?
 What does ToM Accuracy measure in the study?
Who teaches Principles of Functional Programming in Doha, Qatar (Third session)?
 How many language-specific pretrained models were released along with CodeBERTScore?
 How is a tie avoided in lexicographic sorting?
What is the subject of Shields' second Independent Study?
What is the name of the course taught by Hsu at TBA PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
When does the class 'Materials Science and Engineering Teaching Internship' take place?
 What does the proposed contextual end-to-end speech translation framework employ?
What are the names of the instructors for Software Engineering for AI-Enabled Systems class?
Where can one find more information about the department mentioned in this text?
What are the dates and times of Engineering Methods class in San Jose, California?
What are the names of the courses offered from 57618 to 57622?
 What should you do after the rice boils in the Machboos recipe?
Where and when is the Production Management Workshop being held?
 What is the main contribution of CodeBERTScore according to the text?
What are the time slots for Media Design for Love and Money?
When and where is the Exploded Ensemble going to be held?
In which class does Erdmann teach at 11:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
What are the minimum grades required to count an elective course towards degree requirements?
What are the days and times when Martello teaches his course?
What are the dates and times of the events listed in the text?
What is the main purpose of Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What is the course name and instructor for Advertising and Marketing Communications?
 Where can the Journal of Hepatocellular Carcinoma be downloaded from?
Are tuition costs eligible for Student Emergency Support Funding?
Who are the affiliated faculty members at the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the days and times for each course offered in this schedule?
What are the names of the courses taught by Gent, Miller, Crawford, McMahon, Benvenuti, and Poulin?
What services does the University Center Information Desk provide?
What is the course title of the class taught by Smith on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at DNM in room HBH A301?
When and where does Production Prep: Ottone in Villa - Directing take place?
Where and when does Shop Skills VAR take place?
 How many members are involved in the BigCode community that developed and released StarCoder and StarCoderBase models?
Who is PP Kaestner and where did they conduct their research training?
When and where does Internship take place?
 Why do many gradient-based meta learning algorithms struggle with scalability in practice?
What is James Gosling's educational background?
What are the course requirements for an undergraduate minor in the same field?
 How is the intractability issue of computing the risk in MBR decoding addressed?
What are the first letters of each person's name?
What are the names of Johnston's classes?
What is the name of the event that took place on Fri, Apr/07 at 2:00 p.m.?
Where was the EST&P Project Course held?
What are the issues that the University prohibits in its Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students?
What is C.mmp and what is it used for?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
What is the name of the course taught by Kurland at Enterprise Data Analytics 4.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the event taking place?
When is the 'Physical Analysis' course held?
What is the name of the university document that includes information about The Word, Carnegie Mellon University Student Handbook, the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education, the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs, and others?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the Scenic Design course?
What is the name of the course that starts at 08:45 AM in Doha, Qatar?
What is transfer credit mentioned in section 5.1.5?
When was the new expansion of the Cohon Center opened?
What are the names of the instructors for Dodgeball A3?
How can students, faculty and staff report incidents related to bias at this institution?
What is the main topic of this article?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches X?
What is the course code for 'Psychology Research Requirement'?
Where is the SCS Honors Undergraduate Research Thesis located?
What should applicants do if their English proficiency scores were taken before September 1, 2021?
Who can get an Affiliate ID Card through The HUB?
 What does TASTE recommend to satisfy users according to the text?
What are the days and times of all sections of Introduction to Computer Systems?
Who are the authors listed in reverse alphabetical order?
What are the names of the people who have meetings at 9:00 AM on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday in room BH A53?
 What was the topic of the paper presented at the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing?
What competition did a team of LTI students earn top honors in?
When was Dabbala Rajagopal (Raj) Reddy awarded the ACM Turing Award?
What is the Carnegie Mellon University Statement of Assurance?
Where is the Graduate Student Lounge located?
What is the name of the course taught by Caton on Monday and Wednesday from 01:30PM to 02:50PM in PCA 313?
What is the course code for Ichnowski's course and what are its days, times, and location?
What are the names of the two composers mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times of the Lighting Production J course?
When and where will the Introduction to Deep Learning class be held?
What are the days and times of Aldrich's classes?
In what room is Policy 12.0 A TR taught by Cervas at 3:30 PM?
What happens if all other requirements for the MLT degree have been completed?
What is the location of Dr. Stump's study abroad program?
What is the first author's name?
 Based on the given performance numbers, which language has the highest bi-encoder Recall@min in multilingual event linking?
What is the name of the course for Probability Theory for Computer Scientists?
How do the boys come up with the name for their band?
 Why did the authors choose DeBERTA over ERNIE v2 for their main experiments?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the location of Ojeda's performances?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Supervised Reading, Master of Science Research, PhD Internship in Teaching Counterpoint, and Practicum in Mechanical Engineering classes?
What is the total number of breadth courses mentioned for each category: Human Language, Language Technology Applications and Machine Learning?
What is the purpose of Active safety in Boss?
Where is Caulkins B's course located?
Where and when will 'Topics of Law: Introduction to Intellectual Property Law' be held?
What are the topics covered in Anya's E TBA DNM DNM Topics in Second Language Acquisition: Introduction to Linguistic Data Analysis Using R class?
 What is the purpose of Alpaca-CoT dataset?
What is Project News section about?
What was the record for games played on neutral grounds in 2023?
What is the course code for Research Training: History?
What is the location of Computing @ Carnegie Mellon - L1?
What should a student do if their employer does not reimburse them for the full amount of their tuition?
What is the combined mission of Carnegie Mellon's three main libraries?
Where did Vatanasakdul Y live before moving to Doha, Qatar?
How are grading decisions made by instructors at Carnegie Mellon University?
How tall is Ryan Luis?
 What do the authors hope their work on ILL will inspire?
 What is Tevatron used for in the implementation?
Who teaches the Lighting Production class?
 What is attached to the visual features before feeding them into the speech decoder in the Im2Sp model?
What is the name of the class that teaches Production Prep: Love and Money Stage Management?
What are the hours of operation for SafeWalk?
When and where are the courses taught by Sudbury held?
What is the time of the event 'Mozisek DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Mozisek 94784 Technology, Humanity and Social Justice - Health 3.0 A2 F'?
Where and when does 'Introduction to Screenwriting' take place?
Who teaches course 15622 at TEP 1403 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How well do both GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product capture the variation in monthly dust column concentration over the MED region?
What are some financial issues discussed in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Eurhythmics I?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Physics I for Science Students in Lec 5?
 What is the objective function Js defined in the paper for the TSP instance?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Hornack?
 What is the purpose of Genetic Improvement (GI) in software engineering?
 How can the duration in NAR TTS models be controlled?
What is the name of the person who teaches TBA?
What are the days and times of the classes listed?
What is the course '94802 Geographic Information Systems 12.0 A TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Kurland B TR 09:30AM 10:50AM TEP 1308 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania' about?
 What does the 12-dimensional EMA features contain?
What are the days of the week and times for Compiler Design course offered by Instructor TBA A?
Who teaches Prototyping Lab I: Products?
What does 'LTI' stand for?
What is the name of the organization that offers ECE Graduate Teaching Internship 1-18 A in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of Dulin's classes and where do they take place?
What is Annie Wang's hometown and high school?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Autonomous Control Systems?
What is the Optional Masters’ Thesis and why it's optional?
Who is the instructor for Vocal Methods 3.0 A TR 09:00AM 09:50AM CFA M160?
 What age groups are represented in the text?
What are the names of the professors teaching in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does the Gini coefficient vary across tasks in Table 2?
What is the name of the last course being taught in this schedule?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Bassoon), Elective Studio (Saxophone), and Elective Studio (Trumpet)?
What is the policy regarding gestational and parental accommodations at CMU?
What is the name of the course being offered by Dr. Crittenden?
Who teaches Film Exhibition?
Where can students find information about university libraries and their resources?
What are the three units of Stagecraft Costumes (3 units) E2?
What are the recreational facilities available at the University Center?
What is the role of directed study projects in MIIS program?
What are the days and times of Voice for the Stage III class?
What are the names of the two teachers mentioned in this text?
How can a student prepare for full-time employment after completing their degree at Carnegie Mellon?
What was the final score of the game between Carnegie Mellon and Rochester?
What is the name of the class held on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What are some examples of successful companies that followed Mauldin's advice?
What is the purpose of section 2.3 in the text?
According to the text, what is the role of Carnegie Mellon University's community?
What are the days and times for Analog Integrated Circuits class?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:50 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
 How many different volatile chemical components were identified in Schisandra branch exudates and dried fruits using GC-IMS?
What is the course code for Stragar Physics 33051?
Who are the people with last names starting from A to DD listed in this text?
 Which datasets are used to evaluate GLoRA on fine-grained visual recognition few-shot datasets?
When and where is Corporate Strategy M3 offered?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Wayne 06623?
What are the institution codes for GRE Report Codes?
What is the name of Aoun's Special Topics - Capstone course?
In which subject does Galbraith specialize in teaching at Advanced Music Studies STUDIO (Individual)?
How can students ensure they are making satisfactory progress at the university?
What are the course codes for Managing Analytic Projects and Applied Ethical Analysis?
Does speaking ability affect the scoring in TOEFL ITP Plus for China?
Who teaches the Production Management Workshop class?
 How does FLARE differ from other methods in terms of retrieval strategies?
What should I do if English is not my native language?
How many hours is Art of Sonata Performance?
Who are the two instructors teaching Graduate Composition Project: Graduate Composition Project B4 and Graduate Composition Project: Graduate Composition Project C4?
What is the name of the event where Men's Golf competed?
 What is the purpose of the phonatory module mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the people who will be working on each day for Gajic's production?
Which office is responsible for providing computing and information resources at CMU?
 What is the scale used to rate nouns based on how likely they are to be an agent in an action?
What time does Coulson's Race, Nation, and the Enemy take place in Pittsburgh?
What are the names and time slots of Ales' two classes?
What is the purpose of Veterans and Military Community at CMU?
What is the degree of Ph.D. held by Krishnamurti?
What is the phone number of Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the EMPATHICSTORIES dataset?
Who are the instructors teaching Shakespeare's courses?
What problem does the author's prior research focus on?
What is common among all degree options?
What is the name of the course being taught by Zetlin-Jones at TEP 3801 on Monday and Wednesday, 9:30 AM - 10:50 AM?
What is the website where Carnegie Mellon University responds to Title IX reports?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study in Solfege?
 Why is the extinction coefficient within 0.5 km of the ground relatively large in February, October, November, and December in Beijing?
What is the name of the program that the author has worked extensively on?
What is the title of the course that offers an internship opportunity?
When does Urban Design Studio III take place?
When does Wright teach his class in Pittsburgh?
 What were the hyperparameters for the BM25 method?
How can someone request an escort from SafeWalk?
 What is the average performance degradation observed in SplitMix due to the weaker base learner?
What is the purpose of reviewing the University’s Academic Disciplinary Actions procedures?
What are the days and times for Speech I classes?
 What strategy does the text propose to counteract imbalances in the language distribution of the data?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product in the SUS region?
What is the course code for Introduction to Probability Modeling?
What are the names of the instructors listed in the text?
Who teaches BH 237B at DH 1212 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What was introduced into the GUI to give the user an option to mask regions with high levels of impurities?
 How do researchers avoid data leakage or evaluation on seen data when creating the MMHAL-BENCH?
What are the names of the two courses being offered at different times and locations?
What was the date of the match where the #10 Tartans defeated #17 Case Western Reserve?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching Anime - Visual Interplay between Japan and the World?
What was Berliner's competitive fire according to Campbell?
What are the course codes and titles of the two courses offered by Mccartney, Ettensohn in DH 2122 at 2:00 PM on Tuesday?
Where is Kekre's course, Introduction to Product Management, held?
Who are the instructors for Art 60125?
What are the course codes for Senior Thesis I and II?
What is the course code for 'The Strategy and Management of Technological Innovation'?
What is the name of Vosburgh's course?
When and where does the lecture titled 'Democracy and History: Thinking Beyond the Self' take place?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Monday and ends at 12:20 PM?
What is the purpose of Academic Coaching?
What are some ways students can seek and apply for internships?
In which room and at what time is Professional Seminar being held?
 What is the focus of the proposed Im2Sp model?
 What percentage of responses came from the Americas (AM)?
What is the role of academic actions in evaluating transfer courses?
What are the days and times that the Statistical Practice course takes place?
What is the course code and title of Be's course offered in this schedule?
What is the location of Independent Study in Information Systems?
 What technology was applied for the first time in the study on volatile chemical substances in Schisandra chinensis branch exudates and dried fruit?
What is the location of each class listed in the schedule?
According to section 3.3, what are the elective courses available for students pursuing an MCDS degree?
What did people feel when they talked to Allen Newell?
How many individuals are listed under 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Percussion'?
What are the days and times of the classes for Production Prep: Lorca Stage Management D?
 What are some of the additional subsets of ImageNet introduced by the MTT framework?
 What happens if the number of target tokens per mask exceeds max iteration in PAR?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
 In the ablation study about neural backbones of DSR-LM, how many epochs does it take for DSR-w2v-BiLSTM to reach its peak performance?
Are fee waivers available for Ph.D. applications?
What does 'defer the lapse' mean?
 What is the main focus of the IPA model mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of having a student-advisor relationship?
 What scale was used to grade the interobserver agreement regarding MRI features?
Where is the Research Practicum in Computer Science located?
What is the role of representatives from different graduate programs and departments in the Graduate Student Assembly?
In what location will the 'Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics' class be held?
Who is teaching the Vocal Master Class?
What are the class timings for Rao F's Managing Analytic Projects course (HBH 2008) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times that Special Topics: Thematic Development-based Project is offered?
Why is it important for students to know about this university policy?
How many different sections of Keyboard Studies 3.0 are listed in this text?
What is the title of the book discussed in the text?
What is the name of the course that teaches about Music Education 3-9 A?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in room MM320 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of giving MS students access to LTI's computer cluster?
Where are the Production Prep: SOM 3 Lighting Design I and Media Design L courses held?
What event is mentioned in the text and when did it happen?
What is the time slot for Costa's course on Cybersecurity Policy and Governance?
In which section of this document do you find information about conference travel funding?
What is the name of Carley's Ph.D. Seminar III course?
What is the minimum QPA required for a student to satisfy degree requirements?
Where and when does the lecture on Civil-Military Relations take place?
When does the Ethical Theory class take place at Carnegie Mellon University?
What was the final score of the game between #15 Carnegie Mellon and Waynesburg?
 What treatment was received by 64.9% of the patients?
Where can you find information about copying, printing, and mailing services offered by the university?
 How is the objective of the data condensation task formulated in the text?
What is the goal of the Universal Digital Library Project according to Dr. Reddy?
Where is Jake Kavan from?
What is CMU's career and professional development model based on?
What are the locations of Computer Architecture and Systems, Neuromorphic Computer Architecture & Processor Design, Autonomous Driving, Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems, Wireless Networks and Applications, Estimation, Detection and Learning, and Information Theory Measures for Artificial and Natural Intelligence Systems?
 How does iterative self-refinement in the context of SELF-REFINE mirror human problem-solving processes?
What are the course codes and their respective titles?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Software Structures for User Interfaces class?
Where is Peyton Koscho from?
How many credits is course 27995 worth?
What is the course code for Introduction to Research?
What is the name of the person who wrote this thesis?
 What were the characteristics of point clouds captured under adverse weather conditions according to the text?
What kind of financial assistance does Carnegie Mellon offer to students who become parents?
What is the course code for Applied Quantitative Social Science I?
What is the purpose of administering the International Teaching Assistant (ITA) Test at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course title and credit hours of the MAAD Research by Design Project course taught by Professor Rafson?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
In what room is Numerical Methods being taught? What are the names of the professors teaching it?
 What is the abbreviation CTC stands for in the context of the text?
What are the names of the instructors mentioned in the text?
 What was weakly correlated with κorg in the study?
What does FERPA allow students to do?
What is the role of Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation in the Division of Student Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times of Stagecraft Grad Students A4?
 What type of analysis was performed to calculate the significance of single components?
What is the purpose of the LTI PhD/MLT Graduate Application Support Program?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Energy Innovation and Entrepreneurship'?
When must students prepare their thesis proposal after being admitted into PDEEC?
 According to the Contrastive Loss Analysis in Section B.3, why does Lt+ obj(p) lead to worse mIoU than Lt?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM in room WEH 5310?
When was the Eleven Earn NFCA All-America Scholar Honors announced?
When and where will Professor D'Antonio teach Structure and Function of the Human Body in Fall 2023?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in Drawing for Theatrical Designers?
Who teaches the Undergraduate Research course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the standard timeframe for completing a master's program?
 What percentage of participants in the study stated that they became faster at transcription as they completed more tasks?
What are the dates and times of Foundations of Database Design class?
What is the deadline to submit applications for priority consideration?
What was Pittsburgh known for in the past?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
 What capability do agents need to exhibit when performing tasks in interactive environments?
What is the main purpose of the MIIS program?
What are the two courses offered by Zamborsky in PCA 321?
What are the course codes for IPS Policy Seminar I and III?
What event led to a crisis in the Computer Science Department at CMU in 1970 and 1971?
 How does Unlimiformer handle attention computation for long input sequences?
What is the name of the study abroad course?
What are the names of the courses offered in the Production Prep: Passage Media Design class?
 What novel designs are included in PointDR to achieve perturbation-invariant representations?
What is the deadline to submit all applicant materials and pay the application fee for Ph.D. programs beginning in Fall 2024?
How can the hotline help Carnegie Mellon University uphold its commitment to business ethics?
What is the name of the course taught by Hollifield mentioned in the text?
Who is Scotty?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
Who are the instructors for each student's independent study project?
Where are Reilly and Doha, Qatar located?
 What version is the CSTR Voice Cloning Toolkit mentioned in the text?
Where does Sun W teach his course, what is the name of the course, and when are its classes?
What happens if a student is exempt from a required course due to prior courses or experience?
When and where is Introduction to Music Technology (self-paced) being offered?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Choset and Rao listed in the text?
What is the name of the course being taught by Chodos in Senior Studio?
 What is data augmentation in machine translation and how does back-translation play a role in it?
 What type of search is employed for English speech recognition in Table 2?
What is the course code for Topics of Law: Introduction to Intellectual Property Law?
Can students participate in club sports at Carnegie Mellon?
Can course requirements be satisfied by credit given for research or independent study?
 Who were the authors of the article on measuring resilience after Spinal Cord Injury in J. Spinal Cord Med. in 2015?
 What does the equilibrium equation between the bond force and the actual prestress determine?
Which college won the PAC Men's Indoor Track and Field championship according to The Herald article?
Who else came to recruit Rick?
Where does Gasson KK teach?
What is the name of the class that meets on Wednesdays for 'Penelope'?
What is the time of the event 'Mozisek S 08:30AM 06:00PM CMU REMOTE Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania U'?
What position does Ethan Ming play?
Where is Principles of Computing class held at GHC 5210?
How many authors are listed in this article?
Who are the contacts for specific colleges in The HUB at CMU?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for the courses offered in Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes for Elementary French I Online and Elementary French II Online offered by Hoogstaden in this schedule?
What are the various aspects related to MCDS academic policies covered under section 4.1?
What is the name of the course taught by Biyabani R at CMR F305 in Kigali, Rwanda?
Where are LTI's printers located?
What are the days and times of the week when Advanced Business Analytics is offered?
 What does the sparsity of points ranked as important suggest for the upper lip?
How many authors are listed in each line of this text?
What is the title of the seminar offered by Sadeh, Habib B at HBH 1002 on Tuesday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
Is it mandatory for full-time, degree seeking students at Carnegie Mellon to have health insurance?
 How much improvement was found in memory consumption when using GIDroid?
Who is the instructor for W 05:00PM 06:20PM TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics in ICT Mini: Electronic Business and Technology'?
What is the URL for the University Police Department's website?
When does Draping Fundamentals Artisan Lab B2 take place?
What was the number of undergraduates in the School of Computer Science by 1995?
 Who should be contacted for correspondence and requests for materials?
What are the three categories of courses listed in this text?
What are the course codes for the two courses taught by Yasuhara and Iwasaki?
What is ID Cards in the context of the university resources?
Where can students find more information about the Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI) at Carnegie Mellon University?
Which team won the UAA Indoor Championships in Men's Track on February 25, 2024?
What are the names of the courses being offered on Saturday?
Who is responsible for media design in the Production Prep class related to A Little Night Music?
What is the purpose of Graduate Student Assembly at this university?
When is 'Dialects and Accents' held?
Where can students find information about graduate student dining plans?
What are the course codes for Elementary Arabic Online and Arabic for Global Exchange offered by Moufid in this schedule?
In which city is Dueck's Independent Study in Opera located?
What is the purpose of allowing a student to replace an exempt course with an open elective?
Who teaches the course 'Advanced Environmental Engineering' at PH A7F on Tuesday and Thursday?
 What is sequential distillation, and how is it used in downsizing sequential models?
 What metric is used for speech recognition in Table 4 for Dementia detection?
What is the email address of Matt Gormley, Assistant Teaching Professor at Language Technologies Institute?
 How many parameters does the reader model FiE have?
When is the Repertoire Analysis (contemporary musical theatre) class offered at CFA A6 in Pittsburgh?
Who is the instructor for the Independent Study in Professional/Technical Writing course?
What are the courses offered on Monday at 10:00 AM?
 What is the discount factor denoted by γ in GCHRL?
 How were the training topics in the system based?
 How can users easily reset the website environment to its initial state?
Where does Daniel Gongaware work?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA in Aylmer AB's location?
Where can students find a full schedule of programs offered by the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education?
 Why is peritumoral HBP hypointensity considered a good indicator for ruling in MVI rather than ruling it out?
 What is the first approach mentioned in the text for detecting machine-generated text?
Where is the event held?
 What is a possible future improvement mentioned in the text related to the Track module?
What does TBA stand for according to the text?
What instrument does Whipple play in the Advanced Music Studies Studio in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times for Independent Study: Research (R) and DNM courses?
What is the purpose of the Computing Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the procedure described in the text for carrying out a statistical test when each model is presented by multiple outcomes/seeds?
What happens if someone has already completed Form I-9 but their employment or stipend start date/employment changes?
What are the course codes for Usable Privacy and Security courses?
What kind of news does LTI share on their website?
What resources are available for spouses, domestic partners and families of graduate students according to The Graduate Student Assembly website?
What is the location of the Practicum in HCI course?
 How many distinct adaptations can each support tensor potentially undergo across datasets in GLoRA?
When is the next event for this team?
What are the minimum scores required for successful applicants?
What are the topics of the two seminars mentioned in the text?
What are some aspects of language that Graham Neubig has focused on?
What kind of programs does SCS offer?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania who teach Master’s Degree Research 0-99 B?
What instrument does Dee play in the Advanced Music Studies STUDIO?
What should the instructor do if they have not recorded the permanent course grade by the last day of the examination period?
What should students do if they need accommodations due to pregnancy and are engaged in research?
What are the days and times of the week when Changes in Japan 2: Lifestyle/Religion and Gender and Topics in Second Language Acquisition: Language and Identity classes are held?
What are the instructors' names for each course listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:00 PM on Friday and teaches Automated Lighting Maintenance?
 What kind of alignment accuracy was achieved when the effects of motor resolution and detector stability were excluded?
Who is the instructor for Physics of Musical Sound?
Where are Beginning Swimming and Introduction to Yoga A1 classes held in the Fall 2023 semester?
 Which toolkit was used for efficient kNN operations in the text?
What is the course code for Public Art?
What are the three lecture times for Probability and Computing?
What are the names of the rooms where Eurhythmics IV, Solfege IV, and Advanced Solfege II courses are held?
What is the name of Werbacher's course in this schedule?
 What do the encoder and decoder model the probabilities of?
What are Severin Hacker's credentials and what does he do?
What are the names of the classes that start at 12:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What are the courses offered on Wednesday at 10:00 AM?
What is the name of the school that these people are affiliated with?
What is academic integrity?
What are the days and times when Production Prep: Love and Money: Media Design L class is held?
 What is the purpose of the provided installation scripts in the text?
What is the contact number for Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the three courses being offered at 08:00AM to 08:50AM on HOA A10?
What is the ADD period in SCS?
What are the requirements for language-test waivers at a U.S. high school, college or university?
What is the name of the course that requires a graduate composition project?
What is the course name, instructor, and location for Yasuhara's Japanese class?
 Why is it crucial to increase the size of the dataset mentioned in the text?
How often do students receive a bi-monthly email from the Graduate Education Office?
What is the purpose of the site mentioned in the text?
 What is the main focus of the work mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the award given to recognize research excellence at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching the Stage Management, Scenic Design, Costume Design, and Lighting Design classes in this schedule?
What is the name of the first Instructor TBA?
What is the course code for Operating System Practicum?
What is the course title and time for lecture 1 in section 18746?
What does the university believe about individual and collective well-being at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the subject of class 76842?
What is the purpose of consultation with an advisor in creating a course of study for Intelligent Information Systems degree?
What are the days and times for Laboratory IV: Molecular Spectroscopy and Dynamics A section?
What is the course code for the study abroad program?
 How many textual samples are there in the OpenGPTText data set?
 How is the training of E2E models different from classical hidden Markov models for ASR?
 How many layers does the I3D encoder have in total?
Does Counseling & Psychological Services provide services for academic concerns?
What is the name of Cousin's class and when does it meet?
What is the course title and instructor for class MW 02:00PM - 03:20PM in GHC 4211?
What are the days and times of Thesis Research 3-36 A3 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course title of MI 348?
When and where is the 'Production Personnel Management' class held?
Who are the instructors teaching Art 60050 Study Abroad according to the text?
What are the names of the students listed at the end of the schedule?
 What are the 3 factors crucial to exploiting the learned knowledge in the ORCA model?
What should be done as soon as possible when planning for Maternity Accommodations?
Which office does the information about University Police belong to?
What are the course codes and titles offered in the Numerical Methods in Engineering class?
What is the course code for Teaching Materials Science & Engineering?
Who is teaching the class at 5:00 PM on Wednesday?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
Are there any restrictions on who can take Machine Learning 10315?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: Schauspieldirektor/Telephone?
What is the location of Internship 3-18 B?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor E at DNM Pittsburgh?
 What model do Afantenos et al. (2015) and Perret et al. (2016) use for encoding?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: SOM 3's schedule?
How many followers does the Language Technologies Institute have on Twitter?
How many authors are listed in this text?
What is the subject taught by Deluca B3?
 What problem does the UNSSOR algorithm aim to solve?
What services does Carnegie Mellon University offer for copying, printing, and mailing?
What is the main focus of the researcher's work?
 What does a vector field associate each point p ∈ M with in the text?
What is the extra incentive provided by the LTI for MLT students who receive an outside graduate fellowship?
What are the names of the MFA Director's Lab and who is the instructor?
What are the topics covered in the 'Intro to Sabermetrics' course?
Who are the instructors for the following courses in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Which study explored the experience of men using an upper limb prosthesis following amputation?
What are the grade requirements for a PhD course at LTI?
Who is the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Piano Maintenance)?
What is the course code for Transition Metal Chemistry?
What is the course code for 'Developing as a Leader'?
 What is one of the dialogue-level dimensions evaluated in the dialogue system?
Who teaches Advanced DP3: Painting - Lump, Clump, Nestle, Merge?
 Which university is Zhenghao Liu affiliated with?
What kind of assistance do library liaisons, consultants, and information specialists offer?
What is the course code and title of the class that starts at 3:30 PM on Tuesdays in Weihmann Hall?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What happens if a PhD student passes the requirements for an LTI Master’s degree?
What are the course codes for History Proficiency I and II Tests?
What are the practice-oriented requirements for both MIIS-16 and MIIS-21 programs?
What is the name of the event listed as 57947?
How can one contact the Language Technologies Institute?
 Why is developing outcomes measures in the physical HRQOL area important according to the text?
How many elective studios are there in total?
What are the time slots for each department's rehearsal schedule?
Who are the instructors teaching Stage Management (D)?
What institution did Dr. Newell have an affiliation with?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the course names, credits, and locations offered at 2:00 PM on Mondays and Wednesdays?
 Why does wind power decrease in the northern mid-high latitudes under the SSP2-4.5 scenario?
What is the name of the person who will be working on video & media design for Pino's schedule?
What are the days, time, and location of Research Issues in Game Development: Designing for XR in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Acting for Directors I'?
What is the purpose of this section in the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the course title and time slot of the Museum as Resource class?
What are the days and times when course 11485 is offered?
What services does the University Police Department provide to graduate students?
What is the course code for Practice Teaching (Secondary)?
 What statistical test was used in the survey analysis?
In which semester does the course 'Information Systems:School of IS & Mgt 95705' take place?
Is it acceptable for a student to miss course requirements or capstone project commitments due to interview travel?
Where is the Survivor Support Network located?
What are the names of the five Broadway Dance Styles classes being offered?
 What type of encoders are used for encoding speech in the model?
 Which conference is the paper Denoispeech presented at?
What does 'TBA' stand for in the text?
What are the names of the two courses being offered at different times and locations?
Where can students find additional information about various types of funding?
What is the purpose of the ABD Status Agreement Form according to the LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the course codes for the two courses taught by Professor Soluri?
What is the title of Kats' course?
What are the course locations for each time slot?
 What are some common applications of neural language models mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Chinese Studies?
What are the days and times of the first class?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
What is the course code and instructor for Computer Graphics offered by Pollard?
What are the course codes and their respective days, times, and locations for Ostlund's Education Finance and Policy class?
What is the course code for Design of Artificial Intelligence Products, and who are its instructors?
Who is the instructor for class K that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What are the names of the two piano proficiency tests mentioned in this text?
Can you attend these events in person?
What is the role of departments and programs in handling academic integrity violations at MCDS?
What is the purpose of verifying if you are human before accessing bookstore.web.cmu.edu?
What are the days and times for Architecture 48731 Sustainable Design Synthesis Prep?
In which section of the text can you find information about academic integrity?
How many players are listed in this text?
What is the course code for Elementary Korean I?
What is the name of the office that provides wellness services for students at CMU?
 How do attention-based encoder-decoder (AED) models differ from explicit alignment modeling approaches?
 What is the purpose of a duration predictor in TTS?
Where is Carnegie Mellon University's Statement of Assurance located?
What is the name of Nair's course at WEH?
What is the name of the institute?
What are the names of the speakers and their respective topics in Los Angeles, California?
 What model is proposed in the paper on open-domain question answering to boost performance by reusing key skills across datasets?
How many units are required to pass an undergraduate course taken as pass/fail?
 According to the text, which models perform better than traditional E2E models?
When are internships typically scheduled at Carnegie Mellon University's LTI?
 What is the main focus of InPars-Light?
Where was the Art of Sonata Performance class held?
According to the text, what is the purpose of the 'Partnership' section on this page?
What are the names of the instructors who teach 'Penelope' on different days?
What are the names of the courses that involve 'Dialects and Accents'?
What is the purpose of the 'Feedback' section?
 What is the objective of denoising back-translation?
Who are the head coaches of Women's Swimming & Diving?
What is the name of the event where Women's Golf team participated?
Where can graduate students find enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the course codes for Matrices and Linear Transformations and Undergraduate Reading and Research?
What is the role of Shields, Van Hoesen and Cardenes in this list?
What is the location of Laduke R?
What happens if a student has academic interruptions or serious medical issues that cause them to take more time for Master's degree completion?
 What does a negative value in the data presented imply?
 What are some factors that can affect the accuracy of sample alignment according to the text?
What is the purpose of the 'Community Standards, Policies and Procedures' section?
What are the days and times for Lecture 1 of Application Design and Development?
What is the course title of the course taught by Loja, Del Rosario Martinez?
Where is the information about the Eberly Center's goal located?
Where and when is the Innovation & Entrepreneurship class held?
What is the name of the course offered by Instructor TBA 57615?
What are the course codes for all courses mentioned in the text?
When and where does the course 'Fundamentals of Electromagnetics' take place?
What is Carnegie Mellon's top priority according to the text?
What is the instrument of Major Studio for Howard and McGhee?
What is the course title of the class taught by Albertus B in room TEP 2611 at the University of Pittsburgh?
What is the course code and title of the editing and publishing course offered by Costanzo?
 How did the additional synthetic data impact the performance of CODELLAMA and GPT-3.5?
What services does University Health Services (UHS) provide?
Where and when is Arab Culture Through Dialogues, Film, and Literature: 9.0 taught?
What does Schaeffer think about computer scientists' need for massive computing power?
 What is the page range where the research on singing voice synthesis can be found in the conference proceedings?
What are the course codes for Introduction to African American Studies and Race, Caste, Class, and Difference in the United States and India?
What is the name of the research conducted by Burgh?
What is The WORD for Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course being offered for Master's Degree students according to the text?
In which room does DH A302 take place?
What should students do if they have questions that need specialized, in-depth attention at CMU?
What is the website where students can find information about student health services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the dates, times, and location for Design Studies: Histories (MM A11)?
What are the dates and times of class 82796?
 Why are the ℓ2 regularization and total variation (TV) regularization terms excluded from the experiments?
 Why is the model less effective at acoustic modeling in the DementiaBank evaluations?
What is the purpose of the Student Academic Success Center?
What is the name of the course taught by Salameh and Hasna?
 How many teams submitted runs in Task 1?
Do students register or receive a grade for attending LTI Orientation?
 How do most Neural Machine Translation (NMT) systems factorize the probability of generating a translation?
What is the cost to apply for one program in the School of Computer Science?
What is the purpose of providing both 'Login' and 'Logout' options?
What are the days and times for Learning through Cultural Practices and Community A?
What is the name of the internship that takes place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the school's opera performance?
What are the days and times for Seminar in Instruction?
 Why is it important to estimate p using the sum of the k largest in-vocabulary probabilities?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 12:20 PM?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
What is the recommended minimum score on IELTS to be considered a successful applicant?
Who instructs Racquetball: 3.0 at DNM Pittsburgh?
 How many pages does the paper on tackling toxic online communication with recurrent capsule networks have?
How many units are required to attain a Standard MIIS-16 degree?
Where and when does M.S. Graduate Project, Course Option I or Project Option Phase I take place?
On what date is the Women's Tennis match against Sacred Heart taking place?
What are the course codes for Chemistry and Sustainability (Das), Advanced Organic Chemistry (Collins), and Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Development (Ly)?
Where are all these instructors located?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What are the additional learning outcomes for students electing to complete the Analytics concentration?
What should I do if I encounter technical issues while completing my application?
What is the purpose of GuSH Research Funding?
Who did Tartans play against when they won by dominating overtime?
 What is the main problem this work addresses?
 How does Prompt2Model automatically collect and synthesize task-specific knowledge?
Where are Hinman, Hiller's classes located?
What is the name of the course that teaches Capstone Management Project II?
Who are the instructors for the ENGAGE in Service 1.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Hovis B TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Hovis W TBA DNM DNM Doha, Qatar Younis 38132 course?
What is the purpose of having an Important Contacts list in SIO?
 What method achieved an IoU of 76.6 with light fog as the target?
What are the days, times and locations of Shi's course 'Macroeconomics III'?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
What are the names of the two graduate recitals for cello in this text?
What is the maximum time limit for completing all requirements for a master's degree?
 What is the title of the first article mentioned in the text?
 Who is thanked for scientific editing in the Acknowledgments section?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study: VAR A?
Where and when does Subword Modeling take place?
What is the course title of the first class listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the center that focuses on teaching excellence and educational innovation?
What is the purpose of the 'Partnership' section?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends with 'Topics in Arabic Media'?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Sound Studies?
What is the URL for the Key Offices for Academic & Research Support at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the main goal of the Doctoral Program in Information Science and Technology?
What are the names of the two graduate recitals for cello in this text?
What are the locations for all courses offered at POS 152 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the classes that take place on Thursdays from 04:00PM to 05:20PM and Saturdays from 11:00AM to 03:00PM?
What are the days and times of the ninth class listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the student who specializes in Bagpipe?
What kind of facilities will be available at the Highmark Center?
What are the topics covered in Methods for Proteogenomics and Metabolomics?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at PH A27 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What proportion of the dataset involved toxic, NSFW, or sexually explicit content?
Who is the Head Coach of Men's Basketball at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are Koganemaru's two courses in Mathematical Sciences?
Who are the visitors at Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the contrast mentioned in the text regarding feedback loops related to global warming?
What is the significance of the phrase 'Skip to main content' in this context?
Where can I find information about the housing options available for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the definition of SUPERBs according to the text?
What is the Carnegie Mellon University Statement of Assurance mentioned in Table of Contents 1?
What is the course code and instructor for the course offered at 5415 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of ORIC's assistance in institutional animal care & use?
What are the ways in which Carnegie Mellon University provides health care services for its students?
When is Stuettgen's class held?
What resources does CMU offer for student information?
What is the Plaidvocates program at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the course codes and instructors for Organic Chemistry II classes offered at DH 3302?
Where is the University Center Information Desk located?
 What was the training iteration count for the final model, SantaCoder?
What is the duration of Demirkoparan's course?
What was the innovation in 1976 that allowed computers to recognize and interpret human speech?
What is the course code for Fields-Black's Independent Study 3-18?
What was the date and time of the Women's Track and Field team's event at Westminster Invitational?
What are the names of the courses offered by Leoni A at 7:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room GHC?
Who are the instructors for Reasoning with Data A and B courses?
How many courses can students take through the PCHE and Cross-registration program?
What is the name of the instructor for Senior Project 1.0 (A2)?
What is the title of the course taught by Professor Young at 10:50AM on Monday and Wednesday in room A21A?
What is the course code for Physics of Musical Sound?
When is the class 'Causality and Machine Learning' held?
What was the outcome of the Tartans' performance at UAA Championships after record-setting performances?
 What are some challenges that the model needs to resolve according to the text?
What is an Elective course according to the context of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
 What is the first baseline considered, and what approach does it represent?
 What is the significance of the VICT2 trait mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Enterprise Web Development?
Who are the instructors for the 'Production Technology and Management Monograph Stage & Production Management Thesis' course?
What are the two breaks mentioned in CMU academic policies?
What are the credits for the course held from 2:00PM to 3:50PM on Monday?
 How can high fragmentation rates of a language affect the in-context learning performance of models?
What is the goal of Eberly Center's evidence-based teaching strategies?
Who are the authors of this text?
 How were the patients divided for analysis based on CD8+TILs expression?
How many games were played at home by Tartan Football team during this season?
What is the name of the course that will be held in DH 2315 from 09:00 AM to 09:50 AM?
What is the name of the course taught by Garoff?
What is the significance of the Policy Against Retaliation in maintaining a safe and ethical environment at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the first instructor listed in this text?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered in MM 119 at CFA KRESGE on Friday?
Where does Reasoning with Data F take place?
What is the course code for Introduction to Maya, taught by Washington?
What is the location of the school mentioned in the text?
Is the cost of prescription medications covered by the CMU Student Insurance Plan?
What is the role of the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs in relation to graduate students?
How can students obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the name of the architecture proposed in the first text for low-level feature representation learning?
Who is the instructor for Experimental Design for Behavioral & Social Sciences?
 Which method achieves an accuracy of 96.47±0.11 for CIFAR-10 with q=0.1 and η=0.3?
 Where was the article on Resilience after Spinal Cord Injury published in 2015?
What is the time and location of quetball class?
What are the class timings for Risk Analytics?
Who are the instructors listed in this text?
 What is requested from human annotators in the first step of the consistency evaluation?
What is the name of the award mentioned in the last paragraph?
What is the overall goal of Graham Neubig's research according to his personal website?
 What does the contrastive pixel-level objectness constraint do in the proposed method?
 How is the input sequence represented in the text?
What are the days and times of Introduction to Photo Design?
What activities are held in Wiegand Gymnasium besides varsity basketball and volleyball?
What is the name of the office that provides assistance for individuals with disabilities?
What is the name of the office mentioned in A.2.4 that handles research integrity?
What is the name of Sadeh's class on Information Security, Privacy, and Policy?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in HBH 1006 and HBH 1208?
What is the policy on Leaves of Absence (LOA) in LTI?
What is the course code for Translation Workshop 1?
What are the names of the three dance classes listed in the schedule?
 Which journal published the article by Miao et al. in Atmos. Chem. Phys. 2020?
When is the Practicum 0-3 class taking place?
 How did variations in κorg get better parameterized in the study?
What is the purpose of ORIC's assistance in institutional animal care & use?
What are the names of all the rivers listed in this text?
 Did the attention-based LSTM (AttnLSTM) model significantly outperform the standard LSTM model?
What are the courses taught by Damiani at 1:00 PM on Tuesdays?
Who teaches Modern Biology Laboratory?
What is AFIPS '72 (Fall, part II)?
What are the days and times when Special Topics in Societal Computing is offered?
What is the purpose of Student Information Online (SIO)?
 How does the proposed fairness-based method compare to other methods?
Who are the instructors for Graduate Composition Project B4 and Vali Graduate Composition Project: Graduate Composition Project C4?
Who are the authors of this text?
 What are the well-optimized operations that make up ResNet-50 and BERT?
When and where is Competition Programming and Problem Solving held?
What is the title of the article?
 In Table 3, what does Multilingual R@min refer to?
Where is Akguc teaching Investment Analysis: 9.0?
 What was the effect of corrosion pitting on the fatigue life of Q550E steel?
What are the course codes for Phase Relations and Diagrams (Minor Option) and Introduction to Materials Characterization?
What is the final deadline to submit applications for Fall 2024?
What resources are available on the Carnegie Mellon University Parking and Transportation website?
What is the course code for Managing through Incentives?
Where should I request IELTS scores be sent?
What is included in the Academic Calendar for students pursuing an LTI PhD?
When are the dates of the Women's Soccer Camps Elite ID Residential Camp?
Which component in CTAT allows you to create an example-tracing tutor?
What is Yiming Yang's email address?
What is the name of the course that takes place from 12:00 PM to 9:20 PM on days 6-24?
What are Lu Jiang's roles and contact information?
What are the days and times of Wang's Molecular Simulation of Materials class?
Does the CMU Student Insurance Plan cover visit fees to see the physicians and advanced practice clinicians?
Who are the people listed in this text?
 How did the researchers create a new benchmark for performance improvements in Android apps?
What are the days of the week and times for class HBH A2 listed in the schedule?
Who teaches the Cryptography course?
Who teaches Compiler Design: Lec TR at BH A51?
When will the Fall 2025 Admissions cycle open?
How can students get information about upcoming campus events or general inquiries at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of the website where you can watch live NCAA Men's Basketball between Ithaca and Carnegie Mellon again?
Which courses are required to satisfy course requirements for a student interested in the Human Language area of concentration?
What are the names of the people who work with Bohman B?
What is the course code for Design Educational Games?
Where is the Parking and Transportation Services office located?
 What do efforts to establish common benchmarks leverage?
 What is the main focus of the research described in the text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Aylmer AB and Gruber AC?
What is the name of the course that teaches Coding & Algorithms Bootcamp?
What is the location of each student's independent study?
How can students get assistance from Computing Services?
When does U's Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice class take place?
When does Coding & Control for Theatrical Sound take place?
What is the course code for Neural Engineering Laboratory?
What are the names of the instructors and their respective courses?
 What conclusion is drawn about the use of LLMs in text clustering tasks in the study?
What does Vision and Mission Statement represent at Carnegie Mellon University?
What time did the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Salisbury start on Sat, Mar/16?
What are the names of the speakers at the Brownlee 54748 Sound Forum?
What are the days and times of the week when Topics in Second Language Acquisition: Remaking Identity class is held?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Peng?
What is the name of the degree mentioned in this text?
Who are the instructors of BXA Seminar III: Deconstructing Disciplines?
What is the course code for Requirements for Information Systems and who are the instructors?
What is the title of the course being offered at TBA A M 07:00PM 08:20PM in week A, taught by Mei and Sung?
In what year did Shafi Goldwasser receive the ACM Turing Award?
What is the purpose of an N-1 letter in the context of MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are some suggestions provided by the author to help users find what they need?
Is there any mention about how many articles are available in this archive?
Who are the instructors for Masters EST&P Project VAR?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
How many pages does the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook have?
What is the purpose of the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree handbook?
Who teaches Acting for Business I A4 TR 10:00AM - 09:45AM in TEP 2119, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When does Series N1 start and end?
What was the final score for their match against Randolph-Macon at Carnegie Mellon Tri-Match?
What is the name of the event that Carnegie Mellon University participates in on Thu, Mar/07 against Chris. Newport?
What was the name of the event where Carnegie Mellon's men's golf team competed?
When does Del Son al Reggaeton take place?
Who are the instructors for the courses held in room HOA 225?
What are the days, times, and locations of Tabib's course?
Where and when is the NCAA Championships taking place?
 What is the potential impact of the unresolved error propagation between UTTS and other modules?
 According to the results obtained from the well-organized code, how did task 2 (Unexpected Transfer Task) score compared to the reported score for GPT 3.5?
What is the name of the institute that the person founded?
Who were the co-leads on the construction of Cm*?
Does this institution offer any scholarships or financial aid for students?
What is the policy for international students regarding outside employment?
What are the names of the courses taught by Spirtes and Wenner?
When was the Women's Golf team impressive in classroom during fall semester?
 How does SAMA compare to other implicit-differentiation-based meta learning algorithms in terms of compute/memory efficiency?
What are the class times for Production Prep: Media Design with Mr. Burns?
Do you need to provide official transcripts from all universities attended?
What are the days, time, and location of Advanced Technical Character Animation in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What was the date and time of the UAA Championships for the women's cross-country team?
What is the location of the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Saxophone NA?
Where was Men's Golf played at Jekyll island Collegiate?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
 In which year did the paper on learning audio concepts from natural language supervision appear?
What is the name of the instructor for Instrumental/Choral Conducting in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the penalty if a Masters student violates the double-dipping policy?
Are all these classes part of a music program or course?
What is the schedule for each course?
What is the name of the course that teaches Machine Learning for Text Mining?
 What does αobj control in the overall training?
Who teaches the course 57623 Independent Study in Studio Recording Project?
What are the names of the teachers teaching 'Hype for Types 3.0', 'Introduction to Greek Mythology', and 'They Came as Romans: Roman Civilization 360'?
When and where is the ITA National Team Indoor Championship taking place?
How many classes are scheduled to take place on Tuesday, according to the given timetable?
What is the course code for Neural Computation?
What are the names of the instructors teaching each course?
What is the course title of the class that takes place at 12:30 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
 What is the end-to-end task success rate of the best GPT-4 agent?
What is the hometown/high school of Cole Franklin?
What is the name of Sokalski's Masters Project D TBA class?
What is the main topic of this website?
What does the University prohibit?
What are the names of the courses offered by Strom in Philosophy?
 What was one observation made about the model generations compared to humans in the text?
What are the days and timings for Dietrich Introductory Seminar: College & University Success Strategies?
At what time does Lacomis D's course start and end?
What is the role of E-Verify in Employment Eligibility Verification at CMU?
In which room is Revenge Tragedy being held?
Who is eligible to get a degree completion and certification in MCDS at SCS?
What is the email address of Lori Levin?
Where can you find the contact information for the Language Technologies Institute?
 What are the major contributions of the paper?
Who teaches Movement and Dance II at WQE ST B?
What is the course code for AI Applications in Information Security at CIC 1201 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where can students find the official academic calendar at CMU?
What cultural differences do the students and faculty need to respect according to the text?
 How does the performance drop compare between GPT and PET when transferring from template to human-goal specifications?
 What is the main focus of the method described in the text?
 How many syndromes had both level-1 and level-2 voice chains?
What was Daniel Fried awarded for in 2023?
When does Gruber AC's class start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is Hacker Fab 1 located and what time does it start?
When and where is Generative Modeling (GRAD) held?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon Academic Policies?
What is the location of Instructor Z's course?
What are the days and times of Thompson's Structural Analysis class?
What is the name of Kingsford's Undergraduate Research in Computational Biology?
When is the first meeting between Erdmann and Kaynar scheduled to take place?
What time did the Bison Opener event start?
What is the responsibility of members of the Carnegie Mellon University community regarding computing resources?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
Who is teaching 'Democracy and History: Thinking Beyond the Self' in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the main challenge in engineering a prompt that yields a perfectly uniform distribution?
 What are the primary contributions of the study mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors listed in this text who teach courses starting with 'Internship'?
 What are the two main factors that relate to the initiation and maintenance of phonation in the laryngeal region?
Who are the teachers who taught Collaborative Piano I to III in Practicum 3.0?
Who teaches Modeling Evolution in GHC 5222?
What is the main issue that Nico Habermann was unhappy about?
Who was the performer at Graduate Recital: Violin DB?
What happens if a student begins making satisfactory progress again after receiving such a letter?
What is the name of the course being offered at HL A10, its duration, and what type of class it is?
 How do humans typically gather information during content creation according to the text?
What are the names of Zhang's classes in HH 1107?
What are some of Yonatan Bisk's research interests?
What is the name of the instructor for the course 'Stage Management D'?
 What does the drop in ties for recommender systems benchmarks suggest?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Friday at 6:30 PM in room HBH 1007?
What is the course name for Acharya B's class?
What are the days of the week for all courses listed?
What is the name of the website mentioned in the text where people can find more information about Carnegie Mellon athletics?
In which room does Advanced Solfege III take place on A MW 11:00AM - 12:20PM?
According to the policy, what are the expectations regarding proper conduct?
What is the course code for Advanced Algorithms: Theory?
Where is the Psychology 85051 Study Abroad program located?
 How do models respond to questions pertaining to service-based slots in span-based QA?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
 In terms of performance, what effect does scaling model depth and number of hidden dimensions have on vision models?
What is Cognitive Tutor Authoring Tools (CTAT) according to the documentation on this page?
What is the title of the course being taught by Boevers in Grad Screenwriting II?
What are David Mortensen's research areas?
 How often is the model evaluated on the dev set to choose the best checkpoint?
How many credits is the 'Advanced Fabrication II' course worth?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Lassman?
Who is the instructor for Behavioral Decision Making course?
What is the name of the course that covers Web Application Development?
What happens if a student takes courses through cross-registration program and how are these grades recorded?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Introduction to Yoga A2 in the Fall 2023 semester?
What is the name of the course taught by Novack A?
 What is the name of the shared task that expanded to encompass multiple languages in the DialDoc 2023 workshop?
What is the name of the university campus that Herbert A. Simon founded in Mountain View, California?
What position does Ethan Chen play?
What is the policy for incomplete applications in doctoral admissions?
What are the names of the classes that start with 'Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Neely'?
What is the course code for 'Internship 3-12'?
When and where is Lock Haven NCAA Mid-Atlantic Regional?
Who are the students listed in this text?
In which rooms are two courses taught by Bates being held?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses held in room TEP 5219 at 4:00 PM?
Which service is mentioned first under Athletic/Fitness Facilities category?
 How do generative LLMs contribute to natural language understanding and evaluation tasks?
What are the days and times of Exploded Ensemble?
 What are the three types of discourse parsing formalisms mentioned in the text?
 How does temporal misalignment affect the performance of language models?
 What technique does SELF-REFINE use to guide the model in both generating feedback and incorporating it into an improved draft?
What kind of accommodations does CMU offer for childbirth or maternity?
Where does Al Masaeed's lecture take place?
 How many teams participated in the shared tasks?
Who are the instructors teaching BXA Studio (1st semester)?
What are the days and times of Severnini's courses offered by Lightman?
Who is eligible for PCHE course?
Who is Alexander Hauptmann?
Who should students contact for inquiries concerning the application of and compliance with this statement?
Which department is responsible for promoting diversity and inclusion in the university?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
What are the dates of the Reason, Passion and Cognition course?
What is the name of the class that starts at 7:00 PM on Tuesdays?
What is the name of the course taught by Gu?
What is the name of the course that starts at 03:30 PM on Tuesday and ends at 04:50 PM?
When is the class 'Designing Human Centered Software: Designing Human-Centered Software B' held?
What are the course codes for Advanced Natural Language Processing and Graduate Seminar on Dialog Processing?
 What is the significance of blockwise processing for simultaneous speech translation?
 What is one limitation mentioned in the conclusion of the study?
What was the final score of the softball game between #7 Case Western Reserve and Carnegie Mellon on Sat, Apr/08?
What is the course being offered at 05:00PM - 08:00PM on CMU REMOTE?
How many authors are there in total?
 What is the main difference in variability between MN and HAI assays within a run and run to run?
When and where does Tague's Fundamentals of Telecommunications Networks class take place?
What are the deadlines for adding, dropping or withdrawing from courses in Doctoral programs at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the class times and locations for Rosselot-Merritt B3?
What is QPA and how it's calculated?
What is the maximum courseload permitted for PhD students?
What is LTI Orientation?
What is the name of the course taught by Ozis at PH 107E?
Which player has the jersey number 5 and is a freshman on the team?
What are the days and times of the Costume Design class?
What are the names of the courses taught by Rao and Steier in this schedule?
 What is the maximum arm current after SM blocking in the proposed method?
Where are the GIS/CAFM VAR A sessions held and who are the instructors?
What is the title of Bjorndahl's Research Assistant in Philosophy position?
Where does Reilly teach from in Doha, Qatar?
What are the course codes for IDeATe: Design Essentials for Laser Cutting and Introduction to Arduino?
What is the course code for Introduction to Astronomy?
What is the purpose of Employment Eligibility Verification at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of Shen's five classes and their meeting times?
When is the 2023-24 Tartan Men's Track and Field season?
 What does Figure 10 show in the text?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on TR from 2:00 PM to 3:45 PM in TEP 2111?
What is Graham Neubig's position at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where are all these courses offered?
 What is the goal of improving top precision in conversational search, according to the text?
 What is the trade-off investigated between the number of diffusion iterations and the number of samples for diffusion-based NPC solvers?
What did Michael Loren 'Fuzzy' Mauldin do to commercialize his product?
What is the course name and location for the class with a duration of 6.0 credits in Energy Project Development and Finance?
Where is Introduction to Photo Design held?
 How does the stable ratio k affect well-learned representations according to the ablation studies?
What are the names of the courses taught by Thiessen at the university?
What are the dates mentioned in the PHOTOS section?
What is the name of the handbook that provides guidelines for graduate students at this university?
 How are the gate probabilities used to minimize overall computation instead of the number of layers?
What is the title of Durschmid's lecture?
 What does MVI stand for in the text?
What is the name of the website where complete financial aid information can be found at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the URL for the Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs website?
What is required for a student to pass the 11-637 Foundations of Computational Data Science course?
 What is the underlying cause of Frias syndrome?
Who is the instructor of Early Undergraduate Research?
How many pages are there in total for Language Technologies Institute website according to the given information?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'W' in the schedule?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
What is the course name and instructor for Architecture Design Studio: Praxis Studio?
What is the title of the first event's instructor?
 How many pages were selected for transcription tasks in the user study?
What is the name of the course that starts at 2:00 PM and ends at 3:20 PM?
 What does the global attention architecture in FiT5 enable the model to do?
What was the course name and instructor for Defects in Materials 9.0 Lec MW in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the Independent Study class located?
What are the names of the instructors teaching on Wednesday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM, Saturday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM, and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is the name of the event where Women's Golf team participated?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's role in disseminating knowledge?
Who should be contacted for more information about the MLT program?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
What are the three courses being offered in Limauro Production Prep?
Where is Project Olympus located and how do you get there from the Gates and Hillman Centers?
What is the purpose of Peer Tutoring at the Student Academic Success Center?
Who teaches the class 'Law of Computer Technology'?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
When and where are the scenic design classes held?
What is the name of the course being taught by Gajic at 01:30PM - 04:20PM on this day?
 How are the hexagons arranged in Figure 8?
Who are eligible for Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) and Provost’s Office research grant funds?
How can students access professional assistance in finding needed materials at the University Libraries?
 What does the study use as a proxy to link the voice and face geometry?
What are the names and locations for all classes taught by Gomez?
When does PROPEL take place?
 According to the text, what is one proposed refactoring approach by Lyu et al (2018)?
What is the benefit of sponsoring a research project according to the text?
How many classes are there in total?
 What two popular benchmarks exist for evaluating code completion in Python?
What is the email address of the person who manages and posts content for Carnegie Mellon University Track & Field according to this Facebook page?
How can students make a connection into a community of faith during their time at CMU?
What is the status for international students in F-1 and J-1 non-immigrant status?
In which room does the lecture for 'AI, Society, and Humanity' start at 12:30 PM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
What resources does Carnegie Mellon provide for students regarding housing?
 How does the text suggest improving the feasibility of outdoor navigation for agents?
What are the names of the students listed in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Study 3-9, Arscott B, and Issaias?
 What does the data annotation pipeline for the EMPATHICSTORIES dataset involve?
What are the dates and times of Taylor's classes?
What is the purpose of reporting environmental health and safety issues at this institution?
 Why do self-training based adaptation methods sometimes lead to sub-optimal performance in the target domain?
What are the names of the people who have meetings in this text?
Where are Schafer's classes held in Pittsburgh, PA?
What is the main message that Sylvania Erol wants to convey through her work?
How many people like the Carnegie Mellon University Track & Field program on Facebook, as per the information provided on this page?
What services does the Eberly Center offer to support graduate students as teaching assistants or instructors of record?
 According to the text, what is the importance of multiple iterations of FEEDBACK-REFINE?
What are the two different ways to earn a degree in MCDS program?
What is the location of the Office of International Education at MIIS?
What is the role of library liaisons, consultants, and information specialists at the University Libraries?
What are the names of the instructors for Applied Data Analysis 1?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00AM on Saturday in PCA 231?
Where does the Special Topics in Music: Advanced Skills in English Diction class take place?
When and where does Jarbo's class take place?
If a student is put on Academic Probation, what are they required to do in the following semester?
What is the purpose of Computing Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What time does the event 'Literature & Repertoire' start and end?
What is the purpose of iCalendar RSS Feed?
What is the title of the course that meets on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room WEH 7500?
On what date did the #10 Tartans defeat #20 Denison?
How many authors are listed in this text for each city?
What is the name of the class that teaches Writing for Managers?
What types of assessment items may be included in this program?
What is the name of the course in Lighting Production J?
 What is the response generation highly related to?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Software Management Independent Study?
What is the course code for Special Topics: Maker Series: Intro to Metal Jewelry?
What are typical choices for cross-registered electives at University of Pittsburgh?
 Where can all the code and results related to this work be found?
 What is deemed almost impossible in the application scenarios of interest according to the text?
Who are the students listed for the undergraduate independent study mini VAR A4?
What is the location of GSA's office in CMU?
What is the location for each class in this schedule?
What is the topic of Frieze's lecture?
Who teaches Practical Computing for Biologists?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
 What are the four categories of personally identifiable information detected by a basic classifier?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
What is the name of the course that teaches 'Introduction to Ecological Design Thinking' and starts at 10:00 AM on Wednesdays in room MM 321?
What is the name of the class for learning about scenic design?
 Which case had the fastest crack growth rate based on depth?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania who teach Doctoral Thesis Research 0-99 A?
Which degree programs does the university offer for students interested in applied mathematics and mechanical engineering?
What was the final score of the Women's Basketball game between Carnegie Mellon and WashU?
Where can Master’s students find guidelines and restrictions regarding the maximum length of time allowable for master's degree completion?
What is the course code for Special Topics in HCI: Interactive Extended Reality?
What are the class names and their respective times for WF 12:00PM 12:50PM?
When is Heat Transfer held?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:30PM on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays?
When does Lamont teach Information Security Management in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When are the Production Prep classes for Scenic Design held?
Where can graduate students obtain their ID card?
 What were the offsets x and z at the end of the fine alignment?
What does the author want to convey by mentioning the date and semester in the text?
How can students apply for an Emergency Student Loan at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What do cognitive reactions focus on?
 What is used in AED models to indicate that all output symbols have been emitted?
In which city does Grossberg teach Teaching Mathematics course?
Who should students contact for inquiries concerning the application of and compliance with Carnegie Mellon University's statement on discrimination?
Where does 'Urban Nature, Architecture and the Modern South Asian City' take place?
What are some initiatives that support LGBTQ+ and non-binary students at the university?
 What is retrieved from the top 50 passages returned from BM25 for each query?
What is the name of the instructor teaching at 11:00AM - 03:00PM on Saturdays?
What are the course names for classes B3 on Monday from 10:50 AM to 12:20 PM and Wednesday from 10:50 AM to 12:20 PM?
What was the topic of PhD Student Ankit Shah's winning project at the NYC AI Hackathon?
How can students access the university’s wellness initiatives?
When and where does Synnott teach his course on Project Management?
What are the names of the students listed under 'K' and 'L'?
What is the course code and title of Stalin and Stalinism?
When does Strauss Wind Serenade take place and who is the instructor?
What is the purpose of the changes in CTAT 4.2.0?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's mission statement?
What are the days and times of the 'Urban and Regional Economic Development' class?
What is the course code for Global Economics?
 How is performance evaluated for bi-encoder models in terms of Recall@min?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the title and time of the meeting held by Fang in Product Discovery & Definition R2?
How many sections does the academic calendar have?
What are the days and times for Advanced Game Studio?
What is the purpose of Emergency Loans according to section 5.4 of the text?
What is the function of The WORD according to the given text?
What is the name of the person who teaches at Howard?
Where and when does the 'Foundations of Blockchains' course take place?
Where was the W&L Track and Field Carnival held?
What is the name of the person who taught Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12,15 J2?
What is the course name for Business Communication for Analytical Decision Making?
What are the names of the two classes that teach Marketing for Entrepreneurship?
What is the location of the production preparation for 'Ottone in Villa'?
Which section provides information about professional development opportunities for students?
What are the names of the instructors for all courses mentioned in the text?
What are some traits that make the Scottish terrier a good fit for Carnegie Mellon's mascot?
Where can you find Alexander Hauptmann's office location?
Is it possible to waive the English proficiency requirement for any reason?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on MWF from 10:00AM to 10:50AM at CUC FITNES in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the button that allows users to view more news according to the text?
What is the duration of study according to this text?
What are the credits for Raponi Music Education Composition Concert?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching Comprehensive Review (Analysis) and Comprehensive Review (Notes)?
What does the text mention about tax status of graduate student awards?
What is the name of the initiative launched by Henry L. Hillman in 2009?
What is the location of Yagan's lecture for Foundations of Database Design?
What is the name of the course that Keshav and Lessem are taking?
Where can graduate students obtain a copy of the annual security and fire safety report?
What is the course name and credit hours for the course offered by Instructor TBA A?
 What is the goal of domain generalization in the context of point cloud segmentation?
What are the days and times when 'Intermediate Arabic II', 'Intermediate Japanese I', and 'Intermediate Japanese II' classes are held respectively?
What is the topic of the Advanced Polymer Science and Engineering course?
 How did the PM2.5/CO ratio change during PE1 according to the text?
What were the dates of the Spring Break matches in Orlando, Fla.?
Where is the Convocation event held at POS 145 located?
 What is the purpose of multilingual supervised training data in machine translation?
What is the cost of parking permits on campus?
Who should students consult if they are planning time away due to their pregnancy?
What is the purpose of the Safe Computing section?
What is the schedule for the Instructor-led session of Lighting Design in SOM 2?
What are the names of the classes taught by Crawford and Gogolak?
 What was the pass@1 performance on HumanEval after applying a specific prompt?
 What are the contributions of the AV-SUPERB benchmark according to the text?
What are the days/times for Managing through Incentives (course code 73341)?
 What is the primary source of excitation of the vocal tract in the production of voiced sounds?
When does Finger 12051 - Study Abroad take place?
What is the time of Art of Sonata Performance class at DNM?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Sudia?
Who are the two people that taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and their names start with 'X' and 'Y', respectively?
 What transformation is applied to the input of the model according to preliminary experiments?
What is the location of this event?
What is the email address of Daniel Fried?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon University's transformative educational experience?
What are the course titles and instructors for lecture B on Wednesday from 12:30 PM to 01:50 PM?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's policy regarding discrimination based on religious belief?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Mathur and De Roux Uribe?
 Which language has the lowest cross-encoder Macro F1 in crosslingual event linking according to the provided data?
How were kindergarteners in the United States different from German kindergarteners during Hans Berliner's childhood?
When and where does Collaborative Piano V take place?
 What is the significance of the proposed unified framework in the context of learning with imprecise labels?
What is SafeWalk and how does it help the campus community?
What are the days and times of the week when Ethical Penetration Testing is offered?
What are the statistics about crimes committed on campus according to the report?
 What is the focus of non-autoregressive TTS models?
What is the name of Berntsen X's event?
What is provided by the School of Computer Science for use by students?
Who are the teachers listed in this schedule?
What is the duration of the 'Introduction to Coldworking' class?
 According to the text, which method shows a higher performance: UNSSOR or iRAS?
Who teaches the lecture on Foundations of Software Management B2 W?
What is the course name for MWF 09:00AM - 09:50AM?
How many courses in this program are taught without an option for distance education?
Who teaches Distributed Game Studio - Game Art Pipeline?
Who are the instructors for each production prep session?
Where can students find more information about Student Information Online (SIO)?
What is the course name and subject of 57504 Major Studio (Harp) 9.0 A?
What is the course code for Alexander Technique?
Who did #11 Carnegie Mellon play against in the final match of Fri, Mar/10?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA on Monday and ends at TBA?
When and where are the Engineering Statistics and Quality Control classes held?
How many offices are listed under 'Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety' and what is the name of the office that provides mental health support?
What are the names of the courses that start at 08:00 AM, 09:30 AM, and 10:50 AM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What backbone do state-of-the-art AAC systems rely on?
What skills are required for students to be eligible for the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
What is the name of the organization that this page represents?
What are the hours of operation for SafeWalk?
What is the course name for the class that starts at 08:15 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room TBA?
What is The WORD in Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes for Programming Usable Interfaces classes?
What is the name of the course taught by Harvilla on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is the title of the course being taught by Swoveland in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Recital/Project and Artist Diploma Thesis?
What is the purpose of the AI curriculum?
Where is the Internship Three for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD Students held?
What is the initial advisor selection process for students at MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the course codes for 'Writing for Managers' and 'Business Language Analytics'?
What is the course name and instructor for Analog Integrated Circuits?
What is John Proctor's role in Production Prep for Costume Design?
What are the dates of the two panel discussions mentioned in the text?
Where and when is lecture 5 of 'Sign and Development' held?
What is the name of Pavetti's first course?
Where does the Distributed Embedded Systems class take place?
What are the days and times for Lecture 3 of the Introduction to Deep Learning course?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday, Thursday at 9:30 AM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Who authored the paper on natural TTS synthesis by conditioning WaveNet on mel spectrogram predictions in 2018?
When is Stage Management D scheduled to take place?
Can students take electives outside SCS to fulfill the 'SCS' course requirement?
What is the name and time of Thiessen's lecture on Graduate Core Course: Developmental?
When did Carnegie Mellon's self-driving vehicle win a road race?
 What are some modern generation techniques that can be viewed as special instances of Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR)?
Where and when did Men's Tennis play against Washington and Lee?
Where can one find the Carnegie Mellon Code online?
What are the days and times of the class that meets in room PH 226C?
What kind of medical services does Health Services provide?
What is the course title and instructor for the Creative Nonfiction Workshop offered on Tuesdays from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM in room WEH 5316?
 How is the parameter size controlled in Tucker decomposition?
What is the course name of Independent Study in Literature and Repertoire 3-9 A?
 What can be used to describe the external-mixing degree of aerosol components?
What is the course code and title of the third class listed in the schedule?
What is the purpose of ORIC's review of allegations of research misconduct?
What services does Parking and Transportation coordinate for CMU students, faculty, and community?
What is the course type for each course offered in this schedule?
 What is Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding?
 What external knowledge bases does WebArena support?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends with 'Advanced Research in French & Francophone Language & Culture'?
Is there an official record of the letter in a student's transcript if they receive an N-1 letter?
What should a student do if they decide to withdraw from the MCDS program?
What is the purpose of the resource award in ACL?
Where was Carnegie Mellon playing softball against Emory?
 What is the main focus of the proposed learning objective in the text?
What was Dabbala Rajagopal (Raj) Reddy awarded for?
Who are the instructors for 'Environmental Engineering Lab: 3.0'?
What is Kemal Oflazer's email address?
 What approach was employed to mitigate bias in the generated output of the Language Model (LLM)?
 What is the significant influence on the dust concentration in the Middle East region according to the text?
What does 'Pittsburgh' have to do with WEH 5201?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
 What is the average SEScore for the Afro-Asiatic language group?
On which page can students find the summary of graduate student appeal and grievance procedures?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered on Wednesday at 6:30 PM?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed in this text?
What is the purpose of having a 'Share' button on an event from the iCalendar RSS Feed?
Where can students find more information about teaching excellence and educational innovation at CMU?
What does the waiting process mentioned in the text refer to?
 How is the prediction performance measured in the experiments?
 What region is investigated for differences in dust column concentration for GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product?
What is the course code of Teaching Methodologies for the Foreign Language Classroom II: 9.0?
What are the days of Farag's lectures?
 What is one drawback of execution-based evaluation in verifying the functional correctness of generated code?
Who are the authors of Software Engineering Independent Study: Software Engineering Independent Study?
What is the name of the course offered by Instructor C at DNM DNM location?
What is the minimum number of graduate-level courses that students need to pass in Ph.D. program?
What is the course code of Institutions of the Roman Church?
What are some example schedules for completing the MIIS-21 program?
At what time does Cupkova's Photographers and Photography Since World War II start?
Is there a 'grandfather' policy for students according to the text?
How many teams are participating in the second meet of the season?
Who is teaching the lecture on Probability and Computing 9.0 Lec?
What are the time slots of the Costume Design class?
What is the name of the course for HBH 1007 offered on Tuesday from 10:00 AM to 11:20 AM?
Are there other libraries open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
 How many classes are in the SVHN dataset described in the text?
What is the main office for The Language Technologies Institute?
 What are some of the capabilities of AudioGPT as mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes, instructors, and times for Modern Techniques in Uncertainty Quantification (Goel 17757)?
What is the reason for which a degree can be withdrawn according to the University's policy?
What is the title of Moussawi's course that starts with 'A'?
What is gestational and parental accommodation at CMU?
 What is the evaluation metric used for the multilingual track?
 How many languages are included in the Dravidian language group?
What are the days and times of this class according to the schedule?
What happens if an MCDS student does not maintain a 3.0 overall average?
 Why is translating technical presentations challenging?
What is the course code for Elementary German II?
How can students apply for an ML-Joint Ph.D. in machine learning?
 What did the study find about the association between AGR and risk of death for patients with ECOG PS score = 1?
 What is the role of role nodes in Scone?
What is the name of the project in EPP Projects I course?
Who is the instructor for IDeATe Special Topics in Animation: Advanced 3D Asset Creation (for Animation Pr?
What is the name of the building where class G is held?
What are the names of the courses offered at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for Scenic Design E on MTWRF from 6:30PM - 10:30PM?
Where is the Score Reading for Composition Majors and Conducting Minors class held?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Software Engineering Practicum?
Who are the instructors for each of the sound design sessions?
What are the requirements for admission to the School of Computer Science's Ph.D. programs?
 What is the difference between VITS and other text2Mel models mentioned in the text?
 Which amino acid substitutions were not possessed by the tested inﬂuenza C and D viruses?
 What techniques were used to evaluate knowledge proficiency and commonsense understanding in the context mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times when course 15213 has lecture F?
What does the Program Director do in relation to recommended electives outside SCS?
What is the time duration of the class mentioned in the text?
Where can students find additional information about The Word and University resources?
Will these non-Carnegie Mellon courses affect a student's academic performance?
Who are the two people mentioned in this text?
What are the consequences for students who fail to meet the expectations of conduct at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the purpose of College Liaisons according to the text?
What is the purpose of providing information about funding options and how to apply for financial aid on The HUB website?
Who are the instructors for Art 60399 and Studio Independent Study 5-10 courses?
 What triggers the fine alignment process after the coarse alignment in the sample alignment procedure?
Who teaches Production Prep: Love and Money: Sound Design K class?
Who can you contact for help with LTI webmaster related issues?
What award did Dr. Clarke receive from Semiconductor Research Corporation in 1995?
What are the course names for all three classes?
What is the role of an advisor in guiding a student through the program?
Which instructor teaches Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral): 18.0 according to the text?
What is the course code for Software & Societal Systems?
Who is Whipple in this context?
 What is the key difference between CodeBERTScore and BERTScore in terms of the context used in similarity computation?
What is the name of the course that focuses on designing for interactions?
What is the purpose of the graduate student financial aid information found on The HUB website?
What is the title of the course that takes place on MW 09:00AM - 10:50AM in 3SC 110 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of Key Offices for Academic & Research Support at Carnegie Mellon University?
When is Seminar in Finance III (Financial Institutions & Markets) held?
Which studio teaches Harp in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the locations for course 15642?
What is one NP-complete property that can be tested by property testers?
Where is the Independent Study course located?
 What is the name of the powerful Arabic-centric decoder-only LLM with 13B parameters mentioned in the text?
What is the location of Keyboard Studies for Voice A and Graduate Composition Project 1.0?
 What was the maximum error for the Q550E specimen with corrosion pitting in the verification process?
 According to the text, what may end-to-end joint training help to avoid?
What are the course codes for Biomaterials and Ph.D. Thesis Defense?
What is the course taught by Mahler at DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
What is the Carnegie Mellon Student Health Insurance Policy?
What is the course title of Levin's class at GHC 4102?
 Why did the FindObj heuristic policy outperform RL when using DETIC?
 What policy is followed during training that does not fine-tune all parameters in the pre-trained mBART decoder?
 In which year did S. Chen, Y. Wu, C. Wang et al. propose the BEATs approach?
When does Sender Sound Design have its Production Prep session?
How do the boys come up with the name for their band?
What are the course codes and their respective locations for the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the location of Gomez Laich Z's class?
 What value is associated with 5-shot at the 20th position in the text?
What is the email address for Murphy Austin?
What is the maximum level number for graduate level course in School of Computer Science?
Where can students find contact information for MLT program?
 How did the study determine the relationship between AGR and OS to be non-linear?
 What approach was proposed by Houlsby et al. for transferring pretrained LLMs to new language tasks?
 What software was used to analyze the experimental data obtained from six injections?
 What is the purpose of ML-SUPERB in the context of existing benchmarks?
Who won the competition to host the Software Engineering Institute?
Where can students find guidance regarding billing and financial aid?
 What kind of encoder model does KALE leverage?
What is the course code for Analog Integrated Circuit Design taught by Mai?
Who are the authors of this text?
Who is the Head of Machine Learning Department listed here?
What is the course code for Advanced Quantum Physics I?
Who are the students listed at the end of the text?
When was the last revision made to this handbook?
What are the two courses offered in the first fall semester?
 What is the growing interest in towards according to the text?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
 What is the title of the paper by Stephanie Lin, Jacob Hilton, and Owain Evans?
 What is the maximum episode length for the Ant Maze and Ant Push tasks in HILL?
What is the purpose of registering with the Office of the Dean of Students for students expecting a child?
What is the main focus of the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon?
What services does University Police offer according to the MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
What type of instrument did Wu play during their recital?
What is the name of the lecture that starts at 12:00 PM in room MM321 and discusses 'New Pedagogies'?
Where and when does Quantum Computing, Cryptography and Machine Learning Lab take place?
Where should students go for questions related to Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint?
Who is the instructor for Managerial Economics (MSIN) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course name for Walker's class in BH A53?
What are the days and times for Lecture 1-5 of Principles of Computing?
How many units must a student take to attain the MIIS: Advanced Study degree?
Is there any mention of parking and transportation in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the course codes for Bioorganic Chemistry (Silva), Environmental Chemistry (Sullivan), and Introduction to Sustainable Energy Science (Jin)?
When and where does Robot Localization and Mapping start?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday at 9:30 AM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches Business Language Analytics: Mining Financial Texts and Graphs course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where did Westminster Invitational take place?
When does the application for fall 2023 open for Master of Information Technology Strategy?
What is the page number where assistance for individuals with disabilities can be found?
What are Anatole Gershman's research interests?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room PCA 314?
 What is the title of the article by Tyner et al. that focuses on hand transplantation?
 What statistics are provided in Table 1 in the text?
What was the name of the event where Women's Golf played?
What happens if a student violates academic integrity?
What does TRAUB compare CMU to?
In which room is Wynn's Argument class held in Pittsburgh?
What is the course code for Oh's course and what are its days, times, and location?
How many units must an ABS student register for after they defend their thesis?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
How many courses are taught by each instructor?
What are the academic programs represented by Lakshay Arora and Siddhant Arora?
What are the locations for all courses listed?
What is the purpose of the Parking and Transportation Services site?
 How does the visual modality of the speaker diarization module dominate the performance in the VSD+ASR system?
What is the name of the course that focuses on Cybersecurity Policy and Governance?
What is the title of the G course?
What is the course title of Chen F's class?
What are the subjects of Major Studio courses listed here?
 What is the main focus of the text?
What is the name of the instructor for Beginning Piano Practicum II?
What are the names of the two courses offered at DNM, Doha, Qatar?
 How can phonetic word embeddings help in spoken language understanding?
What format do I use to enter my GPA and college/university point system?
What was the time of the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Emory?
Name two classes taught by Coulson.
What is the course taught by Mukhopadhyay at CMB 1202 Doha, Qatar?
 What is the shared variance term assumed in IVA to solve the frequency permutation problem?
How many different classes are there in total, according to the schedule provided?
 How is the complete loss function used to train the encoder-decoder network derived?
What are the instructors for Local Advocacy for Global Change and Elementary Russian I?
 What is the purpose of the task token mentioned in the text?
Can someone who has exceeded the time-to-degree limit still pursue a master's degree?
Who are the instructors for 'MAAD Advanced Synthesis Options Studio I'?
What is the title of the course that focuses on community engagement fellowship capstone?
Where is the Graduate Student Lounge located?
What is the purpose of publicly announcing the thesis proposal presentation?
What is the role of the faculty member in the process of granting transfer credit or issuing course exemptions?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What information can be found on the Computing Services website?
What happens if F-1 or J-1 students anticipate longer than standard completion?
When is the dissertation document expected to be completed?
What are the class times and location of Leadership Development Seminar?
What should students do before taking a Short-Term Accommodation?
What is the course code for 'Getting Started in Electronics: An Experiential Approach'?
Who are the instructors for BA and C in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What are the types of failure examples mentioned for sub-task generation in the Plan Module?
What are the names of the times when each event is taking place?
How tall is Nicholas Kourakis?
What is Matt Kinney's title and contact information?
When was the last day of the NCAA Outdoor Championships?
When and where are MSIT Practicum, Technical Writing and Communication Skills, Leading and Managing Technology and Innovation being held?
What are the names of all classes taught by Thiessen?
Where is GHC CLSTR located according to the given schedule?
Who is the instructor for Essential Skills for Leaders?
What are the names of the buildings where classes A, B, and C are held?
What type of information can be found in the MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the names of the speakers and their respective topics in Los Angeles, California?
What is the location of the Special Topics in Music: connection to self and others through music class?
What is the name of the event where Women's Track and Field team participated?
Who are the instructors for IDeATe: Learning in Museums?
What is the name of the course taught by Abdelghany and its location?
 What are the boundary conditions involved in propagating the generated excitation through the VT model?
Who is the instructor for Leadership & Management?
What is the location of the Undergraduate Internship course?
What are the days and times for Undergraduate Seminar VI held in DH 2302, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Why is it unprofessional to speak a language that not all team members understand during official meetings?
What is a CS user id used for in MS program?
When does Building Better Web Applications take place?
Who did the team play in their fifth match at the Asics Invitational?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
What is the name of the course taught by Dr. Ganapathiraju on Friday at 8:45 AM in room CMB 1031?
What should graduate students do if they need immediate funds for emergency situations?
What sport does Carnegie Mellon play against WashU on Sun, Apr/21?
How can students, faculty, and staff request an escort through SafeWalk?
 What criteria were annotators guided by in formulating intents for the benchmark suite in WebArena?
What is the role of a program or department in relation to extension of time to degree limit?
What are the names of the courses offered in Evaluation B and Persuasive Design?
 What factors were discussed in relation to the secondary transfer length of residual prestress?
What kind of events does Carnegie Mellon CIE offer?
Where is Graduate Reading & Research held?
What kind of additional courses may graduate students who need to build up the core foundations of computer science take?
Who is the instructor for the Arguments and Logical Analysis course held in PH A21 on Monday through Friday from 3:30 PM to 4:50 PM?
Where is the event 'an F TBA TBA' located?
What are the course codes for Biology for Life Special Topics Mini and Honors Modern Biology?
 How are the values transformed in the popularity setting?
When does Mathematics Colloquium take place at 21997?
 Where is the area with the highest concentration of atmospheric aerosols in urban Beijing?
What is the course name and subject of 57508 Major Studio (Double Bass) 9.0 A?
What does the Assistant Directors in The HUB do?
What is the course code and title of the class that starts at 7:00 PM on Mondays?
What is the name of the course that takes place in PTC 2301 on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is the policy for paid vacation of fulltime financial support students?
What is the course name and instructor for Numerical Methods?
Who are the affiliated faculty at Language Technologies Institute?
Can I get a waiver from English proficiency test?
What is the purpose of the Campus Wellness initiative at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the names of the authors who conducted the second undergraduate research project mentioned in the text?
What are some examples of classes that a student might take in Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times when the class with course code '47719' meets?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Psychology with Oppenheimer A?
What is the course code for Functional Programming in Practice?
What is the title of the third class listed after the second one?
Where are the instructors for the LTI Practicum course located?
 What is the default threshold set for all experiments in the text?
 Which months show high dust column concentration values in the Sub-Sahel region?
 How are stress and displacement related in finite element models?
In which city is Dueck's Independent Study in Opera located?
What is the course code for Directed Research in Rhetoric?
Where are the classes of Instructor A and Instructor B held?
What is the contact information for Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
 What is the primary focus of recent IR research according to the text?
What is the course name for class TEP 2111 in this schedule?
What is the purpose of the provided web site?
What is the role of the Graduate Student Assembly at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is the instructor for the Advanced Editing and Publishing course?
What are the days/times for the course 'Innovation Management in Practice'?
What is the name of the course being offered in this text?
What records did Tartans set on the first day of UAA Indoor Championships?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Calculus II on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is the course title and instructor of the Professional Internship offered by Instructor Ishizaki?
When does Kumar teach Introduction to Computer Systems?
Where is the outdoor basketball court located relative to the Donner locker rooms?
What is the course code for Power System Operations?
What is the name and location of the room where 'Introduction to Japanese Mahjong' is held?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
Where is the School of Computer Science located?
What does withdrawal mean in this context?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
What is the phone number of Language Technologies Institute at CMU?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at HL A10 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
In which room does Kohler teach?
Who is the instructor for 'Production Preparation: Project Manager'?
What is the name of Mccafferty's course at WEH 5304?
What are the days and times of the 'Acting I' course?
How can one join the Tartan Athletics Club?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
Who is Mozisek in B2 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Why is continual learning important in adapting models to a multilingual setting?
What was the purpose of the university Town Hall meeting?
What are the names of the two presentations for MSBA Experiential Learning?
 What is the goal of testing and refining LLMs in outdoor navigation?
 Which specific parts of the face geometry show significant correlations with voice according to the study?
 What is the sum of the numbers 17.7, 5.7, 0.7, 9.0, 20.5, and 1.1?
What are the names of the people leading Scenic Design and Carnegie Scenic?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the course codes of all courses offered on Wednesdays?
Where can a full schedule of these programs be found?
 What enables the model to leverage the strong text representations of the LLM for visual outputs in the text?
 What improvements were found in terms of execution time and memory consumption while using GIDroid?
What are the course codes for Energy Project Development and Finance: A1 and Energy Project Development and Finance: R1?
What is the name of the society that Carnegie Mellon University student-athletes were selected for spring initiation into?
Who is teaching the class 'Introduction to Electronic Music'?
 What parameter model was trained using the findings from the experiments?
Where is the Art 60051 Study Abroad course held?
What was demonstrated by the 1981 paper [2]?
What are the three sections discussed in this text?
Who said 'SIEWIOREK : The Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center was way out in front in that field, but then these sort of shallow investigations came along—Massive Open Online Courses—which are getting all of the press'?
In which room does Xhakaj teach Introduction to Data Structures in Doha?
What is recommended for non-native speakers of English who intend to seek employment in an English-speaking country?
Who is this project aimed at serving?
What is the location of the event added by AddThisEvent?
Can courses from the Language Technologies Institute (LTI) be counted as approved qualifying courses?
What is the language policy according to Carnegie Mellon's academic policies?
What are the names of the courses offered in the passage?
What are the course codes and their respective times for Slayton's Probability Theory for Computer Scientists class?
Who is the instructor for Elective Studio (Bassoon)?
 What were the most important contributing volatile substances identified in the dried fruits and branch exudates of Schisandra?
Who teaches Scenic Design E?
Where can I find more information about student and affiliate ID cards?
How many peer-reviewed papers has Microsoft Research published so far?
What high school did Sriya Mupparaju attend before joining Carnegie Mellon University?
 How many new HRQOL content domains were developed based on stakeholder input?
 What is the main idea behind the SELF-REFINE approach discussed in the text?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Thursday at 12:30 PM?
Why did Alan Perlis come up with the idea for joint appointments between Electrical Engineering and Computer Science departments?
What is Alexander Hauptmann's office location at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course and its location for 80496 Undergraduate Independent Study Mini VAR A2?
Where does the 'Teaching Practicum' course take place?
What was the conference record of the team in 2023?
What are some of the seminars and workshops offered by the Graduate Education Office for professional development?
What is the total number of points for semester evaluation and enrollment verification?
What is the course taught by Professor Shapiro at BH 255B?
 Why is it mentioned in the text that training multi-modal LLMs from scratch can be wasteful?
Who are the instructors for Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering?
When was the project initiated to design a multi-processor computer system using minicomputer processors?
 What has brought considerable reductions in word error rate in automatic speech recognition research?
What is the course code for Voice and Speech II Practicums?
What are the days and times of the 'Introduction to Computing for Creative Practice: B' course?
What is the course title, credit hours, instructor, and location of the Internship in Chemical Engineering course?
What is the course code of the Graduate Seminar offered by Woolford in MI 348 at 12:00 PM on Wednesday?
What is the name of the class mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for Introduction to Music Technology (self-paced)?
 What types of metrics were reported in the study?
What are the course codes for Directing and Composition for Theatrical Sound Design 1?
What are the names of the production preparation classes for Mr. Burns?
 What does the text suggest may be happening under the hood with certain combinations of fixed models?
 What is frame synchronous beam search?
What is the location of the Design Center: Calligraphy II class?
What are the main dimensions that The Center enhances to provide an inclusive and transformative student experience?
 What proportion of English and Arabic was found to work better in training data?
What is the name of the person who teaches D's class?
 What is the motivation behind the work on Prompt2Model?
What are the three classes mentioned in this text?
What happens to facility hours during semester breaks and holidays?
Who was playing against Carnegie Mellon in the first game mentioned in the text?
What is the time frame for each course in the schedule (in 24-hour format)?
What is the purpose of the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE)?
Where can graduate students find enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration and Childbirth/Maternity Accommodations?
What is a Formal Leave of Absence?
What is the name of the course that teaches about Taylor Swift through different eras?
What time does the 'Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Steep by Steep: Investigation into Tea Culture' course take place?
Who is the instructor for the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral): Piano?
 What is the purpose of a dialogue discourse parser?
 What does HBP hypointensity indicate in hepatocellular carcinoma?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
 What question does the research question RQ2 address?
 In label synchronous beam search, what hypothesis is also added during the pruning process?
 How does the text suggest uncertainty over recall requirements affects rankings?
What is the course name of 54867?
What is the location of the courses?
What are the names of all instructors teaching on Friday at CMR F305?
What is the name of the course being taught by Bevins at TEP 2702 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 3:30-4:50 PM?
What is the name of the institute where Study Abroad 0.0 was offered?
What is the name of the person who teaches Graduate Internship 1-36?
What are the class locations for each of the classes listed?
 Is there a formal mechanism to extend/augment/build on the dataset mentioned?
Where does Johnson teach his/her class?
 What are the two main generative steps involved in the SELF-REFINE algorithm?
 What is the function of CTC in the Hybrid CTC/Attention architecture?
Where does Pukinskis' Advanced Music Studies Studio take place?
What is Shafi's academic background?
When and where did the Women's Tennis team play their final match?
What is the course code for Physical Chemistry (Quantum): Microscopic Principles of Physical Chemistry?
What is the URL of the Academic Integrity Policy mentioned in section 1.3?
When and where is Studies in Chinese Literature: The Enchanting World of Chinese Ghost Tales & Ctr being held?
 How many system outputs are covered by GlobalBench at the time of writing?
What are the names of the authors who conducted research in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Are there community norms for data collected from human communications?
 What are the non-trivial changes in physical meanings between forward filtering and inverse filtering?
What does GSA do to implement its strategic plan?
What are the days and times when Ben-Michael F teaches his courses?
Who must approve an independent study course?
 What does the fourth row of Table 2 show in the ablation studies?
How can students register for CMU Alert?
 What is the title of the research article by Joe H Ward Jr. from 1963?
What is the phone number where Dr. Lori Levin can be contacted?
What is the name of the stage management class that takes place on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
What is the title of the course that starts at 6:30 PM and ends at 10:20 PM on Monday, Wednesday?
 What improvement did VoxtLM exhibit in speech synthesis compared to a single-task model?
What should students preparing to do an ITA Certification plan?
What are the class timings for Composers Forum and Introduction to Music Technology?
What are the locations for the Global Studies Internship courses in this schedule?
 What are the five types of counterstatements constructed in the text?
What are the issues that the University prohibits?
Who is Lori Levin at Carnegie Mellon University?
How can inquiring students get additional information about various types of funding?
Do students have to register for the LTI Orientation Faculty Research Talks?
What is the name of the person teaching Solfege in this text?
What is the course code for Graduate Reading and Research?
Do they issue waivers based on previous study at a U.S. high school, college or university?
Where can one visit to make such reports?
What are the days, time, and location of Understanding Game Engines in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of Queer Athlete and Ally Collective (QAAC)?
What is covered in the university policy on grades for transfer courses?
When did Tartans end their regular season with a heartbreaking loss at #12 Case Western Reserve?
What are the course codes and instructors' names of all MSCF Business Communication II classes?
What is the course code for Practice Teaching (Secondary)?
What are the class times for Early Undergraduate Research?
 What is the goal of active retrieval in the generation process?
What is the hometown of Derek Wong?
What is the time limit for completing Form I-9 at CMU?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:00 AM and ends at 10:50 AM in room B23 109?
How do I pay the application fee?
What is the course name for Gogolak F1?
Where are the instructors from Instructor X, Y, and Z located?
Where did Carnegie Mellon play their fifth game?
 What model was trained using the same architecture and hyperparameters but without the context information?
What degree did Dr. Newell earn from CIT's business school?
What are the time slots for each class in the schedule?
 What is the maximum output length in tokens in the How-2 Dataset?
 What is the main goal of having a real-world benchmark according to the text?
What are the course codes for Fundamentals of Programming and Computer Science and Principles of Imperative Computation?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Physics I for Science Students'?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Jan/21?
Who is the Academic Program Manager for PhD Graduate Program and LTI?
What restrictions are in place for MS students in the Language Technologies Institute during COVID-19?
When and where are the Fundamentals of Software-Defined Networking course held in San Jose, California?
What is the name of the course for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Piano Maintenance) and Artist Diploma Recital 0.0 A4 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the phone number of the institute?
 Why is it surprising that kNN-LM reduces the perplexity of the base LM?
When does Introduction to Deep Learning and Pattern Recognition for Computer Vision Part I take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is teaching African Americans, Race, and the Fight for Reparations?
What are the names of the three Mechanical Engineering Co-op courses offered?
How many events are listed in this text?
What was the result of the Tartan Men's Cross Country team at NCAA Championships?
What are the benefits of studying AI through this curriculum?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered at POS 146 on Friday morning?
What did Shaw do to get seats for the first day of classes in the new building?
Where can students find information about tuition and fees?
In which section can you find information about dining at the university?
What is the time period covered by the text according to its title?
 What are some examples of artifacts mentioned in the text?
What is the conference record of the Tartan Men's Tennis team in the 2023-24 season?
What is the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion and what resources does it offer?
How many common core courses are there in the MCDS curriculum?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the consequences for violating the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
Where does Kliewer teach his internship seminar?
What is the course title of Mehalik's class?
Where are these courses offered?
 What knowledge gaps are mentioned in the text regarding renewable energy resource assessments and clean energy policies?
What happens if an MCDS student does not maintain a 3.0 overall average?
Who is the instructor for EUREKA!: Discovery and Its Impact on Thursdays?
What can cause a student's Master's degree completion to take longer than usual?
What is the course name for TR 09:30AM - 10:50AM in POS 152?
When are changes made in the schedule files updated?
What are the days and time for Information & Communication Technology 04601 ICT in Africa Seminar?
Where can students find information about University Libraries at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the days, times, and location of the course 'Chemistry Elective 1-12'?
What is the location of the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Trombone QA?
What is the doctoral thesis research for Anderson and Bukh?
What is the purpose of the 'Explore' button?
What are the days and times of each course offered in this schedule?
When is Stage Management D scheduled to take place?
When does Lec 2 of 14795 AI Applications in Information Security take place?
Who teaches the course 'Special Topics in Music: E TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor'?
What are the days of the week when each course is held?
What are the class times and location for 'Advanced Speech Techniques'?
Who can students contact for questions about course selection?
What are the course codes for the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Sunday?
What is the location of DNM?
What are the instructors for each course?
Who are the instructors for the course 36995: Reading and Research?
When does the Independent Study with Rogers start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the main contribution of the proposed framework discussed in the text?
When and where are Singh's three classes held, what is the subject matter for each class, and which room do they take place in?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Monday at 09:30 AM?
What should applicants do if their application is incomplete?
What is the name of the handbook that contains key resources for graduate student support at CMU?
 What is the main finding in the text regarding the memorization capabilities of GAN models?
 What is the objective of the Vicuna chatbot?
How does technology impact our daily lives?
 What are some applications of meta learning mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the professors teaching Integer Programming, Special Topics in Combinatorial Optimization, Organizational Learning, Advanced Economic Analysis I (Adv. Econometrics), and Structural Models?
 How were the neural models adjusted to account for class imbalance?
What are the days, times, and location of the class that meets in TEP 2701 with Major 70458 Advanced Data Management?
What is the name of the course being offered on Production Prep?
 How much did the PM2.5 mass concentration increase from 09:00 to 12:00 on 11 February?
What are the names of the students who participated in Independent Study 1-24 in this text?
What is the name of the stage management seminar that starts at 02:30 PM on a Monday?
What is the name of the class that teaches about the basics of self-producing for theater artists?
 What is the new task introduced in the text for Large Language Models (LLMs) to accurately hallucinate possible futures in outdoor environments?
Where does Gu, Khong, Peng teach their student-taught course? (Second answer)
What is the name of Dell's course?
Where can U.S. citizens and permanent residents complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)?
What are the breadth courses offered at MIIS?
What is the purpose of the guidance provided by CMU according to the text?
What is the name of Garrod and Blelloch's class held at DH 1117 on MWF from 12:00PM to 12:50PM?
 How much smaller can models generated by CUTTLEFISH be compared to full-rank models?
What is the name of Williams' course?
What is the time duration of both classes mentioned in the text?
What is the course title and instructor's name for the Masters Project in Materials Science?
What happens if a student's degree is withdrawn due to falsification?
When should I apply for CPT if I am an international student at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What were the results of the human studies conducted on the dataset?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
Can an equivalent graduate course previously completed at Carnegie Mellon or another institution be used to satisfy one of the MIIS breadth requirements?
What is the purpose of reviewing the Academic Disciplinary Actions procedures?
What is the course code for Graduate Reading and Research?
Which instrument does student F, Lawrence play?
What are the course codes for Special Topics: Materials and Their Processing for Mechanical Engineers and Cellular Biomechanics?
What is the standard length of time for Master’s degree completion as outlined in the relevant MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Ashok, Merson in Engineering Data Intensive Scalable Systems?
Where are the classes for Differential and Integral Calculus held?
What are the class timings for Ghani's Machine Learning for Public Policy Lab (HBH 1006) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and time slots of Writing for Managers class?
 What is the major difference between frame synchronous beam search and label synchronous beam search?
Who is Christopher's instructor for Television Economics in Los Angeles, California?
What are the topics covered in Power and Influence?
What are the days and times when Model Theory II is held?
Where is Research in Psychology - Mini VAR A2 held?
What is the name of the course taught by Idzik?
What is the contact information for the Carnegie Mellon Police Department?
What is the location of Energy Conversion and Supply course?
What were some of the historic demonstrations created by Reddy and his colleagues?
Where is Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania located?
What does FERPA stand for according to section 6.7?
Who are the instructors mentioned in the text?
What are the consequences for repeated or serious infractions in the MSAII program?
What is the location of each course at thematics 2.0?
Where do the students attend their classes?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
What is the name of the instructor leading the Directing A session for SOM 1?
What is the name of the course that starts at 9:00 AM on Tuesday and teaches Scenic Painting II?
What is the course code for MSCD Pre-Thesis 1?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in the given schedule?
 What are the three variants of WavLabLM evaluated in the experimental setup?
Where will Sound Editing and Mastering be held?
What is the name of the institute's intranet?
Who is the instructor for the B section of Dramaturgy?
What does FERPA stand for?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
Who is the author of this article?
What are the days and times of the 'Design Thesis Prep IV' class?
What is the name of the office mentioned in A.1.2 according to the text?
Who are the authors of Sophomore Recital 1.0?
What is the Okawa Prize and when was it awarded to Reddy?
 What is the benefit of using Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding?
Who is the target audience of this website?
 Based on the text, does ensembling the models trained with and without TTS data improve performance?
 What evaluation metric is used for the toxicity identification evaluation on the Social Bias Frames dataset?
What is the course name for 21369?
What are the time and location of the Independent Study in Creative Writing course?
When and where does Algorithm Design and Analysis take place?
In which city and state does Advanced Undergraduate Research take place?
What are the names of the teachers who teach in room PH A18C?
What is double counting courses?
When and where is the Chorus going to be held?
What is the role of Campus Wellness in promoting student's physical and mental health?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA 57497?
How can I obtain email addresses for faculty members in the School of Computer Science?
 What optimization algorithm is utilized for training?
What are some recent achievements mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the production that starts at 11:00 AM on Monday through Friday?
What is the name of the ensemble that meets on Wednesday at 2:00 PM?
What is the location of lecture H taught by Saad and Ada?
 What is the function of adapters and compact adapters in model optimization?
 What is the focus of the analysis in the text?
Who teaches for the 'Broadway Styles' course on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What is the title of Xu's Machine Learning for Scientists course?
What are the two subjects discussed in this text?
 What tasks are focused on in the utterance-level classification tasks for audio processing?
Who should students seek guidance from about their program of study and degree requirements?
What is the purpose of the ID Cards mentioned in section 6.3?
What are the names of Ma, Yu's classes?
At what time does Zhou teach Physics III: Modern Essentials at GHC 4215?
When is the first lecture for Physics 33104 Experimental Physics?
 What does LLaVA hallucinate in Table 11?
What is Monica Harrison's title and contact information?
What kind of information can be updated by the students on SIO?
What is the duration of the MCDS degree program?
What are the names of the classes listed in the schedule?
What are the days and times of Yao's Independent Study in HCI-UG 3-24?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the phone number mentioned in the text for accommodations-related questions?
Are students allowed to transfer out of the MLT program?
What is the course code for MSCF Business Communication II E?
Can students pursuing part-time studies appeal to extend the time limit to complete their master’s degree?
What are the course codes for Interaction Design Fundamentals?
What is the primary purpose of research at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where is Multilevel Modeling held?
What is known about the Scottish terrier breed, according to the text?
Why is it important for students at Carnegie Mellon to uphold the standards of the community?
 How were the tasks in the system evaluated?
What are the programs that do not follow any early deadlines and have an application fee of $100?
What was Allen Newell's focus in artificial intelligence?
 What information did each participant receive in the report?
What information can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/acad_standards/creative/disciplinary.html?
 What types of training methods are used with Unlimiformer in the Book Summarization experiments?
 What is the structure of the CHiME-7 DASR challenge with regards to tracks?
What are the timings for the course 'Strategy Development'?
 What methods were used for radiological follow-up in the study?
What should be done if a student leaves to pursue another academic program before completing MCDS degree requirements?
Who should you contact if you have any questions about reservations?
 What is the main focus of research in the paper regarding compression techniques on tensor and pipeline parallelism?
How can students ensure that they are making normal progress towards their degree?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Harp)?
Where can you find more information about the Language Technologies Institute?
 What socio-economic implications are associated with the cross-lingual cost and performance disparity of APIs?
Who is Shaw and what does he believe about critical path analysis?
 Why did the boundary layer height decrease from 1.1 to about 0.6 km during the static state with low wind speed in PE2?
 What is the main advantage of the COS model over other baselines?
When does Christian C's class take place?
What are the course codes and titles of the two courses that start at 12:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday?
What is the purpose of the Language Technologies Concentration in SCS?
What are the names of the instructors listed in alphabetical order?
What is the person's current position?
What kind of sessions can a student choose from to improve their language skills?
What is the name of the course taught by Khare?
When and where does Small Group Study in HCI take place?
When does the 'Kinetics and Mechanisms of Chemical and Enzymatic Reactions' class take place?
What are the names of the courses being offered in Statistical Models for Management and Control - Causal Inference and Energy Finance?
What is the purpose of providing a shared office space in this program?
Which state does No. 30 Koko Sagae come from?
 How did the authors address the issue of limited training data in the model learning alignment between input and target sequences?
What is the name of the event/conference mentioned at the end of this text?
What happens if a student fails to complete the Employment Eligibility Verification within 3 business days of beginning work?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
Where is the Dalcroze Eurhythmics Workshop located?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in room MM312 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the course 'History of Asian Architecture'?
What is the purpose of using CAPTCHAs according to the text?
How can students make appointments at UHS?
What are the days/times for the course 'Research Studio: Arts Futures'?
Where does Wenner teach Race, Gender, and Justice?
What is the role of evaluation metrics in a Ph.D. dissertation?
Are there other libraries open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
Who is Serkan Piantino and what was his role in the 25th anniversary celebration?
 How many in-context examples were used for the PaLM-2 (Bison) ref-based model?
What are the names of the courses that teach Neural Networks for NLP?
 What type of correlation is observed between MERRA-2 reanalysis dust products and GRASP/Component dust retrievals over the dust emission resource regions?
What is the course code for Software Design and Architecture?
Where does da Silva Sousa's lecture take place?
What is the purpose of the Early Bird Projects according to the text?
What are the course codes for the courses listed?
How many academic semesters are there in the Standard MIIS degree program?
What is the course code and title of the ninth class listed in the schedule?
What should doctoral students do if they require an extended period to complete their degree requirements?
 What is the aim of using the proposed method in the bipartite graph setting?
What are the course credits and their respective instructors' names in this schedule?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
How many months are students expected to attend LTI Orientation Faculty Research Talks?
 What is the goal of the VCA (vascularized composite allotransplantation) transplant outcome as stated in the text?
What kind of initiatives does the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion offer?
What is the purpose of including a handbook for each department at CMU?
 What is the difference between autoregressive (AR) and non-autoregressive (NAR) models in terms of inference speed?
What are the class timings for Ghani's Machine Learning for Public Policy Lab (HBH 1006) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the 'Private Pilot Ground School' course?
What happens if test scores or official transcripts are not marked as received until after the submission of the application?
What is the main objective of the Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores (PDEEC)?
What is the course title of Li's class at POS A35?
 Which study compared functional and psychosocial outcomes of hand transplantation with prosthetic fitting in below-elbow amputees?
 How do language models encode biases and stereotypes?
What are the dates and times of Tech Startup: Market Discovery 6.0 A1 R 06:30PM 09:20PM HBH 1206?
What is the significance of ACM (Association for Computing Machinery) according to this text?
What are Professor's intentions for designing and building intelligent programs?
What is the meeting time of Costume Production H on Saturdays?
 What is the name of the multi-modal AI system proposed in the text?
What time does 32402 Leadership and Ethics class start?
What are the topics of Sadeh's and Habib's class?
What are the names of the instructors for Dance/Light class?
 What did the manual analysis of program pairs show about the kind of changes responsible for performance gains?
What is the title of the course taught by Levinson at 1:00 PM?
What are the days and times of the lecture on Algorithm Design and Analysis?
Who are the authors listed in the first half of the text?
What is the date of the event?
Who decides whether or not a student is likely to complete the program if their cumulative QPA drops below 2.6?
 What does the BASS model assume about the acoustics and summary given the semantics?
 What is the bilevel optimization formulation mentioned in the text for optimizing noisy training data?
What is the policy regarding freedom of expression at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the classes that will be taught at different times?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
In which classroom is the Consumer Behavior A3 class held?
 What is the purpose of Emotional and Cognitive Reactions (Emo. & Cog.)?
 How long were the nine transcription tasks designed to take approximately?
What is the duration of each class in this series?
What is the topic of the text?
What is the course being offered by instructor Velten-Smith?
What is the course code for Senior Thesis I?
What position does Leighton Tarke play?
What is the name of this document that contains information about graduate student life at LTI?
 What were the results of the multi-channel TF-GridNet in the anechoic case without fine-tuning?
 What is the purpose of the Objectness constraint loss weight (αobj) in the algorithm in the text?
What is the rate information for on-street metered parking?
What kind of tutoring services does Peer Tutoring offer?
What happens if a student fails to meet the academic standards and policies established by Carnegie Mellon University?
Who teaches Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations in Lecture 2?
What are the days and times that the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Lighting' is held?
Who are the instructors at the 57498 BXA Studio (3rd semester) program?
What is Louis-Philippe Morency's phone number?
What are the names of the individuals listed under courses starting with 'E', 'F' and 'G'?
 What was the default trained model referred to as?
Who teaches Engineering Principles of Medical Devices course?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
What position does Ben Mills play?
What is the type of music performed at Berntsen Z's event?
What are the appointment types offered at this center?
What is the location of BXA Undergraduate Research Project?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Linear Algebra and Vector Calculus for Engineers?
Who is the instructor for the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral): Voice?
What is mentioned as being online and on page 9 of a handbook in this text?
What is the title of the second part mentioned in this text?
 How is the potential harm of perpetuating harm against marginalized people addressed?
How many courses are mentioned in this text?
Does the Language Technologies Institute have photocopiers and printers available for use by Ph.D. students?
What is the name of the course that teaches Probabilistic Graphical Models?
What are the names of the courses offered by Production Prep for Grown Ups on Saturdays?
What happens if a graduate student completes their degree requirements in less than the standard length of time?
What is the name of each person listed after their respective instructor's name?
What are the four types of accessories available in this store?
What are the days and timings for Coda I?
Who is the instructor for Data Stories in Pittsburgh?
 Which model is used for document retrieval in the multilingual question-answering model discussed?
Who is the instructor for Text to Screen course?
What is the policy on withdrawal of degree by University?
What is the location of Zhang's classes?
What is the name of the research conducted by Burgh?
What is the course code for Prototyping for Interaction Design?
Do students have the right to consent to disclosure of personally identifiable information from their education records?
What is the course name for Psychology Research Training at TBA TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the authors of this text?
What are the days and times for the classes held in room HBH 1006?
What are the different types of faculty mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors teaching Machine Learning Systems, Database Systems, Algorithm Design and Analysis, Undergraduate Complexity Theory, and all sections of Computer Science 15442?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Mobile and Embedded Software Design in both Pittsburgh and San Jose?
 Is the content restricting the type of things it can refer to?
What is the value of model checking for designers?
What is the course code and instructor of Developmental Biology (03350)?
What are the names of the instructors for Introduction to Asian Religions and Science, Medicine, and Colonialism in the Modern Middle East?
Where is Board-Level RF Systems for the Internet-of-Things class held?
Why are laptops required in MS program?
What is the name of the course offered by Cato in Art?
 What is the purpose of performing clustering on data labels in ORCA for dense prediction tasks with continuous labels?
What should I do if my expired TOEFL scores are over two years old?
What are the names of the courses for Costume Design and Lighting Production in Production Prep: Ottone in Villa?
How can you contact the Information Desk at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the days and times of the courses offered in the schedule?
How many pages does Family and Dependents Resources have?
Where is the Intro to Rust Lang course held?
What is Supplemental Instruction (SI)?
Who teaches Physiology in Fall 2018?
What is the duration of a typical student's study period under the Professional Preparation Track?
What is the course code for Consulting Lab?
What happens if there's an error in computing a student's final grade?
What is the name of the production preparation course that starts at 8 PM?
How do I contact the Language Technologies Institute?
 What approach has been traditionally dominant for automatic speech recognition?
What is the name of the class taught by Hitchcock at 4:00 PM on Monday?
 What is the main finding related to the cost of GI?
What is the location of the school that offers Music 3-9?
What is the name of the class that Shea teaches at PCA 210 on Tuesday from 09.30 AM to 11.50 AM?
What is covered under 'Course Repeats'?
What does Palay do when interacting with his own colleagues?
What are the dates and times for 'Ficca 48772 MAAD Advanced Synthesis Options Studio I 18.0 A TR'?
 What is a potential future direction mentioned in the text for further research?
 What is the name of the network introduced in the paper by Xufeng Yao et al.?
What are the three types of requirements for students at MIIS?
 How do existing approaches handle individual configurations of label imprecision?
Who is expected to remain on campus during breaks?
What are the names of the courses offered in the afternoon on Tuesday?
 What does the KD-DLGAN method complement, based on the text?
What is the time and location of course 21355?
Who are the instructors for Introduction to Repertoire and Listening for Musicians class?
Where does Fernando Diaz work at Carnegie Mellon University?
What does the phrase 'designate a default letter grade' mean?
According to Jonathan Schaeffer, what is the purpose of using chess in AI research?
Who teaches Prototyping Lab I: Communications?
What was the result of Tartans' tie for in the UAA Championship according to the news on October 18, 2023?
What are the days and times that Fundamentals of Telecommunications Networks is offered?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in CSD PhD Elective VAR A and Programming Language Semantics?
What is the course title of the fourth class listed in the schedule?
How many resources are mentioned in the text for understanding university policies and expectations?
What are the names of the students listed in this text?
What types of discrimination are prohibited by the University according to this text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the Acting for Directors I class on this day?
What are the class names and locations for Mulvihill's classes?
Who can you contact if you have any inquiries about the Language Technologies Institute?
 What type of scale is used to measure fluency in the evaluation process?
What is the name of the course for Artist Diploma Studio 3-36 A TBA DNM DNM Piittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does 'confidential consultation services' mean?
When does costume production start for Gajic's schedule?
 What is the title of the article by Kisala, P. A., Tulsky, D. S., Boulton, A. J., Heinemann, A. W., Victorson, D., Sherer, M., et al. published in 2020?
 What does the kNN-MT method require to improve translation?
 What role do external knowledge bases play in conversational search?
Who are the instructors for the 12:30PM - 01:50PM and 01:00PM - 01:50PM classes?
 What is the main challenge in scaling up federated learning with expectation propagation to modern models and datasets?
What city is mentioned first in this text?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
 What is the Enron corpus used for?
In which semester does the course 'Introduction to Information Security Management' take place?
 Which journal published the article by Zhang and Li on aerosol column size distribution during a haze outbreak over Beijing in January 2013?
What is the name of the course that starts at 2:30 PM on Tuesdays?
What is the name of the student who will be presenting his/her thesis research and writing in the field of Scenic E?
What is the nature of the MCDS program?
What kind of boards are available at the dive pool in Carnegie Mellon University's swimming and diving facility?
What is the name of the women's tennis team that played against Duquesne?
When do students typically start searching for internships at Carnegie Mellon?
 What dataset is used for NER in the experiments?
 What evaluation method was used to compare the naturalness of utterances generated by different models?
What are the course codes and instructors for all classes offered by Cranor, Agarwal in DNM DNM?
What are the days/times for New Venture Creation?
What is the email address of Lakshaya?
What type of campers can attend the Swimming and Diving Summer Nike Swim Camp?
What is the course code for Meaning in Language Lab (Self Paced)?
What are the hours of operation for dining locations at CMU?
What is the course title, instructor, and time for History of Architecture in the Islamic World- A Primer?
Who are the instructors teaching IDeATe: Introduction to 3D Animation Pipeline and Foundations: Sculpture according to the text?
When and where is this special topics in HCI class held?
What are Lei Li's research areas?
Who are the participants of Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12,15 A2?
When and where does Human Factors course take place?
Who are the instructors teaching each class listed in the schedule?
Where is the Naval Science - ROTC course held?
What are the names of the instructors for each independent study course?
What is the title of the piece that will be performed in the 'Strauss Wind Serenade' class?
What is the email address of the Language Technologies Institute at CMU?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for each class in this schedule?
What are the names of the instructors for Physics First Year Seminar: VAR Black Holes?
When and where does lecture for Signals and Systems take place?
Which office handles research integrity and compliance at CMU?
What is the email address of Louis-Philippe Morency?
 How many laboratories were invited to participate in the EQA feasibility study?
Why did Habermann and Jordan write a white paper in 1986 proposing the creation of 'a School of Computer Science'?
Where can individuals with disabilities seek assistance at CMU?
Who teaches Intermediate Japanese II in-person at PH 125B?
What is the class name of Larocca's classes?
How many units are usually taken from other departments or schools besides LTI and SCS?
 How many random samples were ranked by participants in the subjective AB preference test?
How many pages does this document contain?
What are the names of the instructors for Sports Technology?
What is the course code for Puccini’s Operas: Politics of Representation?
What is the course code and title of the first class listed in the schedule?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep: Grown Ups Production Management?
What is the course name of 54860?
What is the course code of the Entertainment Technology 53230 Programming for Game Designers?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule that start with the letter 'P'?
When does the class 'Funding Early Stage Ventures: A' start and end?
What are the names of the people listed in the text from Doha, Qatar?
 Under what conditions did the fraction of sulfate show a correlation with D50?
Who can students confer regarding issues of process or other concerns as they navigate conflicts?
What is the name of the recital that takes place at Instructor TBA E?
What are the course codes for Complex Analysis and Extremal Combinatorics?
 According to Ngoc Le and Sadat (2020), what works better for the Inuktitut–English language pair?
What is Wu's role in this text?
What is the result of Tartan Women's Cross Country Schedule in SUNY Geneseo Mike Woods Invitational?
 What is the main requirement for participants in the main track of the CHiME-7 DASR challenge?
What is the SCS policy regarding changing advisors?
What is the purpose of sharing options at the end of the statement?
What is the name of the course that Simons teaches?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in this schedule?
When does Chamber Music: Guitar take place?
 What is the best percentage of context dropout found during experiments?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Embedded Systems?
What is the defining feature of a Ph.D. degree?
What are the names of the two speakers at the Scenic Design Forum?
What is the location of DNM?
What is Early Completion for graduate students?
What is Dr. Clarke's role at CAV?
 What types of retrieval does OpenMatch-v2 support?
Where does the Graduate Assistantship for ETC take place?
What is the name of the course that focuses on Policies of Wireless Systems?
What is the purpose of the Cohon University Fitness Center?
What are some potential issues students should consider when taking recommended electives outside SCS?
What are the dates for the sixth and final meet of the season?
What is the Policy on Grades for Transfer Courses mentioned in this text?
What are the days and times for O'Hallaron, Eckhardt's Graduate Reading and Research class?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Keshav in room 2612 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM?
 What issue does the study aim to address in knowledge-grounded dialogue systems?
What is the minimum TOEFL score to become a successful applicant?
What are the three production preparation classes mentioned in this text?
 What type of system is enabled for flexible processing based on the existing streaming framework Kafka?
 Why does ChatGPT solve the false belief task but fails on the true belief task?
What is the duration of this special topics in HCI course?
 What is the default threshold for filtering out models based on size in the model selection process?
Where can applicants find full details about the curriculum and application instructions?
What forms are required for under 16 year olds attending camps at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Tuesday and teaches New Play Development?
What is the location of Siegel's lecture in the schedule?
Where does 'Inelasticity' take place?
What happens if a student takes a Short-Term Accommodation?
What are the days and times of the courses listed in the schedule?
Where did Scotty come from originally?
What is the combined mission of Carnegie Mellon University's libraries?
 Why is full fine-tuning generally better than tuning only the layer norms?
 What do the results represent due to possible machine translation errors?
What is the name of the course taught by Mayeda that focuses on Storytelling Through Effects Animation?
What does '06:30PM 10:30PM TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania' mean?
How many consecutive losses did the team have at one point during the season?
 Where are the statements drawn from in the text?
What types of initiatives does the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion offer?
Which team won the UAA Indoor Track & Field Championship Title on February 25?
Who are the instructors for each course?
What was the outcome of the Tartans' final match in February 2024?
 What model was the FiE model re-implemented from according to the text?
 Under deep mitigation scenarios, what is the main feature of wind power changes?
 What organization funded the work mentioned?
In what building and room number is Developmental Biology and Human Health class held?
 What are some strategies proposed to tackle the multimodal misalignment problems for vision language models (VLMs)?
What are transfer courses and how do they relate to Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE)?
What is the purpose of the Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs?
What is the name of the instructor for the Major Studio (Oboe) class?
Who can benefit from the support of forming a study group?
Where and when is the Multilingual Natural Language Processing course held?
What is the significance of printing this information?
Who are the instructors involved in scenic design class E for 'A Doll's House'?
Where is the Graduate Student Lounge located?
How can be reached the Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the main focus of this study?
What are the names of Kittur's two classes?
What is the URL for Carnegie Mellon's Academic Integrity Website?
 What evaluation metric was used for phone recognition (PR) task?
What was the main subject of Herbert A. Simon's research?
What was the date of the game between Carnegie Mellon and Case Western Reserve?
Who teaches Document & Information Design in room 318 at the CFA building?
What are the course codes and their respective class timings for Mani's AI & Emerging Economies (CMU REMOTE) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What information will the Carnegie Mellon University transcript include?
What is the name of the player who plays as a goalkeeper and has the number 1 on her jersey?
What is the Fredkin Prize in Artificial Intelligence?
 What led to a performance boost in AAC models according to the text?
What are the class times and locations for Comiskey C3?
Where was the person an assistant professor of computer science?
What is the policy on grades for transfer courses?
Can international students perform unpaid work on research projects for CMU faculty during their consulting time?
What is the deadline to apply for this program?
How do I contact the Information Desk at Carnegie Mellon's University Center?
What is the title of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM in room WEH 4707?
What are the academic policies at MIIS?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Fridays from 4:00 PM to 4:50 PM in room HOA 160?
What is the academic program represented by Manoj Ghuhan Arivazhagan?
What is the name of the course offered by Professor Spirtes at 09:30AM - 10:50AM on Tuesdays?
 What does Xrec represent in the context of the text?
What is the name of the event where Women's Tennis team participated?
What are the time and location of Information Systems Community Engagement course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does Neural Code Generation Directed Research take place?
What is the course code for 'API Design and Implementation'?
What is the name of the instructor for MI 348, SH 238 and CMB 1030 classes and their respective class timings?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Franko in class A3 and CFA 318?
What is Louis-Philippe Morency's phone number?
 What is the mode of the numbers provided?
How many types of clothing are available for men, women and kids in this store?
What is the course code for Human-Computer Interaction 05120?
What was Reddy's role in getting DARPA work started on VLSI research?
Where is the Physical Computing class held?
What are the locations of each independent study course?
 Why do researchers study adversarial examples in machine learning systems?
 What is the result of the ablation study regarding instructions and demonstrations for the LLM?
What is the name of the piece composed by Wu R?
What is the course title of the class taught by Hakim in room CMB 1190 at the University of Pittsburgh?
 What is the role of ALiBi in the architectural design of the model?
 What trend was observed in the translation of non-compositional expressions by transformers?
What is the title of the seminar that starts at 12:30PM on Tuesdays?
What is the course code for Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing offered on Tuesday at 02:00 PM?
What opportunities are available for students in the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems program outside of the classroom?
What is the total duration of the MIIS program in months?
What might cause a Master's student to require longer-than-standard completion?
Can a student appeal their final grade without any exceptional circumstances?
What are the names of all people who have 'D' as their title or position?
When and where will Graduate Seminar 0.0 A F 03:30PM 04:50PM PH 100 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania take place?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Literature and Repertoire 3-9 A?
When and where does Introduction to Biomedical Engineering take place in Fall 2018?
Where are Laird's classes held?
Who teaches the 'Data Science for Technology, Innovation and Policy' course?
Where does Allison Silva come from?
What is the name of the course at CFA M157 from 2:00 PM to 2:50 PM?
What is the course title and instructor for Structural Design 2?
What instrument does Shields play in the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
Do students taking summer courses have to pay tuition?
What are the names of the buildings where Cervesato will be teaching his classes on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is the purpose of the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
How many individuals are listed under 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Trombone'?
What are the names of the activities listed in the text?
How can I contact Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the benchmark used to evaluate several agents in the text?
Who teaches Thesis 1-99?
 What architecture is chosen as the reference policy in the experiment?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching 'Photography and the Ephemeral'?
What are the days/times for course HBH 2009 and what does it offer?
What does The WORD contain information about?
When and where is Programming Language Pragmatics held?
What is the purpose of Health Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the dates and times of the lecture on Generative AI and Large Language Model?
 What metric is used for the final ranking of systems in the CHiME-7 DASR challenge?
What are students with physical, sensory, cognitive or emotional disabilities encouraged to do?
What is the name of the person who has a meeting at 9:00 AM on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in room PH 126A?
Who are the instructors listed in this text who teach at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and their respective courses?
 What factors were investigated for their impacts on CCN activity?
When and where does lecture 24105 take place?
Can a student tailor their coursework in a given concentration to follow a particular area of emphasis?
What is the title of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA on Friday?
 Why did the researchers vary the random seed for each system being evaluated in the experiments?
What is the main topic of the text?
What is the title of this document?
 What are the types of datasets that quality filters are typically applied to?
Who teaches the 'Engineering Privacy in Software' course?
 What is decoding in the context of MT?
How can students register for CMU Alert?
Who is the instructor for Digital Accessibility - Ensuring Universal Access to the Information Society course?
Who teaches the Reading and Research in Robotics course?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
What are the three primary goals outlined in Carnegie Mellon University's mission statement?
Who are the speakers for the tenth event?
What are the course names and their respective days, times, and locations?
 What is the length of the drift tube used in the gas phase-ion mobility spectrometry unit?
Who are the players on a softball team?
Where is the location of 'Sustainable Energy for the Developing World' course?
 What technique is mainly used to reduce the parameters of the convolution layer in the model?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C102 from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM on Tuesday?
 What role does dataset retrieval play in the Prompt2Model process?
What are the requirements for language proficiency mentioned in this text?
What is the name of Ozdoganlar's class at 9:00 AM?
Who can benefit from the information provided in this page?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Kang?
 What do the results indicate about the benefits of combining active learning and transfer learning?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Dramaturgy B on MTWRF from 6:30PM - 10:30PM?
 What does GTlab stand for in the upperbound configuration in Table 8?
What is the name of the course that teaches how to launch new products?
When does Freeman F teach his class?
 What is the purpose of Self-conditioned CTC (SC-CTC) in the context of intermediate outputs?
 Under what circumstances is the execution halted during the experiments?
 What are the metrics provided in Table 1 for evaluating the speaker diarization systems?
Where can eligible students find information about registering their domestic partner for benefits at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of the Knowledge Requirements in earning an MSAII degree?
When is 'E-Textiles' being held?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Comiskey?
 What are some of the challenges mentioned in the experimental setup process for synchrotron tomography?
What is the topic of the class taught by Instructor TBA?
What happens if a student enrolled in an IPR course section cannot attend all class meetings?
What was the final standing of Carnegie Mellon Women's Track at the UAA Indoor Championships?
What is the duration of Platz's course?
What happens upon completion of all degree requirements?
What is the Emergency Student Loan (ESLs) process managed by?
 What type of assay was found to be intrinsically more variable within a run than HAI?
What are the locations of Carlisle W and Gruber AC courses?
What is the name of the course taught by Sanchez H?
 What is the purpose of generating counterstatements in the text?
How many people are listed in this text?
What is the course code for 19th Century Russian Masterpieces?
Who are the instructors listed in this text?
 What discretization technique is used in the approach described in the text?
What kind of data does Professor want to utilize for improving speech and natural language processing?
What is the name of the course taught by Cato in the Internship class?
What is the purpose of a Page according to the information provided by Facebook on this page?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Performance 3-9 A?
 What settlement was named in honor of Prince Frederick in the context sentences?
 What are the two contributors to the performance gap in the seven languages compared to English?
What is the course name for 57610?
What are the time and location of Database Design and Development course in Doha, Qatar?
What is the time slot for IPS Policy Seminar III?
Is this calendar feed for a specific sport or sports team?
When and where is the 'Kinematics, Dynamic Systems and Control' course offered?
What is the course code for Advanced Data Analysis II?
 Which two language models are focused on in the text, and what are their key characteristics?
What kind of events can you find information about at the University Center Information Desk?
Where can you find the full schedule of programs offered by the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE)?
 What was one of the threats faced by Lakewood in 2012?
What does the university do to prevent or discourage students from availing themselves of appeal and grievance procedures?
What is the location of Parking and Transportation Services office at CMU?
 What percentage of participants believed that their work could benefit from the release of small versions of pretrained models alongside large ones?
Who teaches Tepper PhD Internship 3-36?
What is the name of the instructor for the Graduate Reading and Research course that starts at 03:30 PM on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is mentioned in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook about research at CMU?
Who are the instructors for Major Instrumental Ensemble?
What is the name of the school that Jay Saluja attended?
How many times does Stevens teach at PTC MPR Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2) and John Proctor: VAR?
 How does StoryQ visualize model performance changes?
What was achieved in 1983 related to user interfaces?
What are the dates and times of the production preparation sessions for 'A Doll's House'?
What are the days and times for Intermediate Spanish II 9.0 A TR 02:00PM 03:20PM DH 1117 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the instructors for the 02:00PM - 03:20PM class?
What instruments are offered in the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)?
When does 'Privacy Policy, Law, and Technology' take place?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
When did Alan Turing first propose the idea of computers playing games like chess?
What is the classroom location for all sections of Entrepreneurial Engineering Project and Functional Programming in Practice?
 What factor makes a warmer solar panel less effective in converting solar energy into electricity?
What is the course name taught by Garlan Kang at B1 F 12:30PM-01:50PM?
What is the schedule for the course 'Production Prep: Grown Ups Costume Design'?
 What does Impact (Imp.) seek to explain?
What are the class names for the two classes that start at 03:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday in room EDS 125?
What is the location for all classes in this schedule?
Who is the instructor of Introduction to Professional Writing in CEE at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Which platform was used to develop the shopping website with approximately 90k products?
Where can students find more information about library services?
What is Robin Hammer's role in the organization?
What is the name of the person who teaches Z?
 What are the mean values of the extinction coefficient at 300 m for summer, winter, and spring/autumn in Beijing?
What is the name of the seminar for instructors TBA Q2?
What are the days, times, and location of Ryan A's class?
What are the days and times of Scenic Design E class?
 What is the purpose of the PostNet in the Transformer-TTS model?
What are the different types of faculty mentioned in the text?
Who instructs the Reading and Research VAR course at DNM Pittsburgh?
What is the purpose of A.1.4 Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion at Carnegie Mellon University?
In what room is Graduate Seminar held at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What kind of housing information does the university provide to graduate students?
What are the course names, instructors, and credit hours of Grande Gutierrez's last class?
Who are the last authors listed in this article?
Who teaches 'Logic Design and Verification'?
What happens if a student requires more time to revise their thesis and present it?
 Which model performed the best in the submission, and what was it based on?
Who are the professors mentioned in this text?
Where and when is the Oboe Studio Performance Class being held?
What is the name of the professorship that Edmund M. Clarke received in 1995?
What are the days and times of the classes for Production Prep: Lorca?
What are the courses offered for Master's and PhD programs in Machine Learning?
 What is one of the limitations mentioned regarding the experiments conducted with Prompt2Model?
What are the names of the classes that start at 12:30 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is the location of EH 7316?
Where is the Thiessen Research in Psychology Practicum located?
What are the dates and times of the S section of Production Prep: Mr. Burns?
What are the class names and meeting times for Jafry O'Connor?
What are the days and times for Hoffmann's Advanced Topics in Logic: Automated Reasoning and Satisfiability class?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00AM on Tuesday and Thursday in PCA 231?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
What is the name of the person mentioned in this text?
Where does Nelson, Loria-Sklar teach their student-taught course? (Second answer)
Who are the instructors for the courses listed in the text?
Who are the instructors for Kurland DD and Severnini N?
What is the course code and title of the Management Consulting course offered on Wednesday from 6:30 PM to 9:20 PM?
What are the days and times for Ceramics for Non-Majors?
What is the role of the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs in supporting graduate students?
What kind of dining services does Carnegie Mellon University offer?
 What tasks/datasets were used to test FLARE in comparison to baselines?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered on Saturday from 3:30 PM to 4:50 PM?
Who was appointed as CMU's first Dean of Computer Science in 1988?
What are the names of the students who will be performing in Artist Diploma Recital 1.0 and Artist Diploma Studio?
What is the relationship between student-advisor in the context of this text?
Where and when is the Special Topics: 6.0 course held?
Where is the Golfweek Invitational held and when does it start?
What is the significance of Tartans participating in various events throughout the season?
Who are the instructors for Full-Stack Application Development?
What are the steps students need to follow if they want to register for Maternity Accommodations?
Can MIIS-21 students enrolled for full-time study use courses taken as part of another degree program toward their M.S. degree requirements without prior approval?
What happens if a student is having trouble with their studies?
Who are the instructors for Premo FB and Williams G?
Who are the instructors for the 'Technology Consulting in the Global Community' class?
What are the dates and times of the classes listed in the schedule?
Where can students find additional resources and support during their time at Carnegie Mellon University?
What does the phrase 'across a variety of teaching contexts' mean?
 How is the speaker-attributed word error rate (SA-WER) calculated in the CHiME-7 DASR challenge?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Instructor TBA E?
On which date and time does Softball play against Cal Lutheran?
What is the course code for 'Management Presentations' that starts at 2:00PM on Tuesday in TEP 2119, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Which office provides assistance to individuals with disabilities at this university?
Where is 'Cognitive Neuropsychology: 9.0' being offered?
What type of services are available at Computing Services according to section 6.10?
How much does it cost to apply for this program?
What are the University's expectations around academic integrity?
How is a student's degree certified after completing their LTI PhD?
 According to the text, which model is the highest-performing open-access model on HumanEval and MBPP benchmarks?
What time does Ytsma start his class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Healthcare Communications?
 What hyperparameters were varied during the grid search for the lexically constrained generation task?
What are the names of the courses offered in Costume Design?
What is the intellectual property entitlement split for Carnegie Mellon University?
When does the 'Database Systems' course take place?
What is the course title of the fifth class listed in the schedule?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered in the given schedule?
 How does IC overexpression affect CD8+TILs according to the text?
 Which paper introduces the Advent technique?
What are the names of the courses being offered in Production Prep:Penelope?
What is the subject of each class on Tuesday and Thursday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What was the purpose of building these robots according to William 'Red' Whittaker?
 How does performance of the previous-sentence retrieval method compare to using the previous window method in 2WikiMultihopQA?
 How many noun-verb-adverb combinations were there?
What is the name of the tournament where they played their match against Penn St.-Behrend?
Who is Chas Murray Rose and what is his role?
Who are the instructors for K and L in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course name of Instructor TBA H's class?
What are the dates and times of the Lighting Production class?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
Who are the instructors teaching Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing?
 How long was the corrosion time of components in the experiment?
What is the course code for Introduction to Set Theory I?
What does 'personally identifiable information' refer to?
When is Linux and Open Source course held?
Who are the speakers for the event starting at 02:00PM on Tuesday and Wednesday?
When does 57214 Love, Drugs, and War: The Obsessions of History's Great Composers take place?
What are the class times for all sections of Introduction to Machine Learning for Engineers?
What are the days and times of Introduction to Deep Learning 6.0 A4 TR 04:00PM 05:50PM POS 152 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the Undergraduate Internship course taught by Angermeier and Chapman?
What are the meeting times and location of the Seminar on Robotics?
What is the consequence for violating Carnegie Mellon's policy on sexual harassment and assault?
What are the course codes for all courses listed?
What is the name of the course taught by Foy at Career & Professional Development for Engineering Masters Students?
What is required for using the tennis courts at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course name for 'Laemmli'?
What is the title of the course that starts at 7:30 PM on Tuesday and Thursday, taught by Anglin in room B23?
What are some factors that influence the standard length of a graduate student's program?
What is the course title of the Special Topics class held in San Jose, California by Bustamante?
What is the DGES Code of the Doctoral course in Information Sciences and Technology?
How can someone contact the Language Technologies Institute via email?
What are the time slots for Stage Management in Production Prep: Love and Money?
What are the names of the buildings where Cervesato will be teaching his classes on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is The HUB and where is it located?
 What properties define an agent proto-role according to Dowty (1991)?
When did Computer Science at CMU become a School of Computer Science?
What is the course title of the class that takes place at 12:30 PM on Friday?
What is common among all degree options?
Who developed the technology for Smart Traffic Signals at CMU?
Where does Rhythm Satav come from?
What is the name of the instructor teaching IDeATe: Robotics for Creative Practice?
 What type of computer was used for the experiments?
 What is the key focus of bio-mechanical models in simulating the vocal tract?
What is the name of the costume production class for Lorca?
What is the name of the course offered in Introduction into Springboard Diving A2 TR 09:30AM 10:50AM?
 How many hours of supervised speech data was OpenAI Whisper model trained on?
Which service is mentioned first under Parking and Transportation category?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
 By what percentage did accuracy increase on the random set with the combination of sentence upweighting and kNN-MT?
 What new backbone for IR models is introduced in OpenMatch-v2?
Who collaborated with whom in this research paper?
What is the course code of this special topics in HCI class?
What is the purpose of this text?
What is Elizabeth Schlemmer's position and class level?
 What does the cluster heat map of differential aroma components in branch exudates visually display?
 What did the proposed model successfully outperform in both test subsets of the Switchboard models?
 What metric is used to compute the average L1 distances between predicted and ground truth tract variables?
Who are the instructors for independent studies in Pennsylvania that have a duration of 6.0?
What are the names of the instructors for the Advanced Polymer Science and Engineering course?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in Doha, Qatar?
Why was Pittsburgh a place where people worked hard and made things that changed the world in the past?
Does the text mention any specific services provided by Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)?
Does ETS accept IELTS as an alternative to TOEFL?
 What does the text suggest about the sensitivity of reciprocal rank as the number of relevant items increases?
What is the main purpose of Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What is the name of the player who plays as a defender and has the number 7 on her jersey?
What are the dates mentioned in this text?
What is the course code for Directed Reading offered by Instructor TBA?
When do students graduate from this program?
What are the names of the three people mentioned in this text who have a Master's degree?
Does Carnegie Mellon University accept IELTS Academic or General Training?
What are the names of the instructors for Seminar on History of Philosophy and Formal Methods: Tools and Techniques?
How many double-doubles did Megan Matsko record during the season?
How do students locate specific resources at the library?
What is the total number of students that can attend Aguiar's class?
What is the schedule for the Instructor-led session of Costume Design in SOM 2?
What are the dates, times, and locations of Modern Organic Chemistry II classes?
What are the start dates, add/drop deadlines, exam dates and more?
Who are the instructors of 'Private Pilot Ground School' course taught by Wang?
What is the topic of the text?
What position does JP Florentino-Mattos play?
Who is teaching Jazz II in Room 306 on Monday, Wednesday?
 What type of models does CodeBERTScore use for encoding, and what distinguishes them from other models?
 How many individuals are in the population during the fine alignment procedure?
Where can I find more information about Carnegie Mellon University's Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students?
Do I have to memorize music?
What should students do if they are interested in taking advantage of the cross-registration opportunity?
 What is the main difference between DSR-LM-DeBERTa and DSR-w2v-BiLSTM models?
What is the course name and instructor for 36719?
What is the name of this person's birthplace?
 What is the learning rate for the Adam optimizer ARL?
 Why do wider model variations see no increase in latency at low batch sizes?
What are the class names for Richards' last two classes?
What are the days and times of Marketing I: 9.0 class?
What are the course codes for Acting I and Orchestration I?
When and where does 'Human AI Interaction' take place?
What are some key resources for Graduate Student Support?
What is Form I-9 used for at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the people who teach Semester Support in Philosophy 1.0?
What does the text mention about sharing options?
How many semesters does it take to complete a Masters degree in Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How are the MRI features ranked in the text?
What are the course codes, titles, and instructors for the courses offered at DH 1117 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the class times for classes A10 and B1?
Who should contact for specific application/admissions questions?
Where can you find information about textbooks used in courses at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does 'E&TIM Seminar on Innovation Management in Practice' take place?
Who are the instructors for the classes listed in the schedule?
Who are the instructors for Solfege for Conductors II and BXA Studio (1st semester)?
Which instructors have 'Shields' as their last name?
 What loss function is used to optimize the model parameters?
What would a student interested in deepening their expertise in Machine Learning area of concentration study during Fall 1?
What kind of intelligence did Kasparov see in Deep Blue according to Berliner?
What are the theoretical models used by the author for insight and understanding?
Who is Cherian?
What are the locations for each course?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:30 AM on Tuesday in CUC CYCLE?
What is the course code for Elementary Korean II?
What is the name of the course being offered in section 51612?
In which room is 'Empirical Methods' held?
What is the name of the course that starts with 'W' in the schedule?
Who teaches Introduction to Philosophy class?
Who teaches the Societal Computing Practicum?
 What dataset is used in the initial experiments with Pentathlon focused on machine translation?
How many credits do breadth courses have according to this text?
What time does Double Bass Studio Performance Class start?
What is the course code for Introduction to Psychology?
What are the names of the courses that start with a letter between 'A' and 'K' and have 'Production Prep' in their name?
What is the name of the course that teaches about 'Gadgets, Sensors and Activity Recognition in HCI'?
What is the purpose of GSA at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course held on Wednesday at 5:00 PM in room MM203?
What are the key elements of CMU's Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) success?
What are the names of the courses offered under Carnegie Scenic (F)?
How many pages does this handbook have?
What is the course name for MSCV Capstone (course code: 16622)?
What are the days and times for Litt B's classes in Queer Representations in Contemporary Literature and Culture from Japan?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday?
Where was Callan PP's course held?
 For what role did Stone win an Academy Award, a BAFTA Award, and a Golden Globe?
What is Jonathan Schaeffer's current position and what research does he lead at the University of Alberta?
What are the graduate degrees offered by the LTI?
What is the name of the teacher who teaches at 12:00 PM on Wednesday in room WEH 8220?
 Why is it mentioned that comparing code pairs with CodeBERTScore is more correlated with human preference and execution correctness?
What is the main topic of the text?
 In the study, what were the different types of text data used in pretraining Dtext?
What is the name of the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Piano Maintenance) and Advanced Music Studies Recital/Project?
What is the course name taught by Garlan Kang at A1 F 09:30AM-10:50AM?
What are the topics discussed in 'Grand Challenges Seminar: Preserving History with Blockchain Technology'?
What is the purpose of optimal transport in machine learning?
What does the abbreviation 'MTWRF' stand for?
 What are some successful multilingual benchmarks that inspired the design of GlobalBench?
What is the purpose of the Resources section mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times when Mcgowan is teaching Interdisciplinary Independent Study at OFF CAMPUS Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of section 6.1 in this text?
What are the names of the authors who wrote about Independent Study: Breadth?
What is Schaeffer's opinion about building an 'intelligent' machine?
What is the time slot for Elective Studio (Double Bass) and Elective Studio (Oboe)?
 What was the radius of the influence ball set at the crack tip for mesh refinement?
Where do the boys in the story live?
What is an independent study in the context of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the location of the Euphonium Advanced Music Studies Studio according to the text?
What are the course codes for Black and White Photography II, Introduction to Hot Glass I, and Introduction to Hot Glass I again?
How can you contact Alexander Hauptmann?
Where and when is the Applied Cryptography course held?
How can students get involved with GSA at CMU?
What is the last name of the author listed as 'Smalley I'?
Where is the School of Computer Science located?
What are the shortcomings of the solutions found according to the text?
 What insight do the studies on MRI features provide for articulatory synthesis?
Where does Frick teach General Topology course?
What are the main objectives of Information Science and Technology study cycle?
What should I do if my payment is unsuccessful for any reason?
 What is the big obstacle to wider adoption of the proposed approach?
Who are the instructors mentioned in this text?
Who is the instructor for the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Piano Maintenance) course?
What are the course names and their respective days/times in Managing Teams and Organizations?
What is the policy on using courses from other institutions towards an MLT degree at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does Stephenson E2 teach 'Information Systems Project 0-24'?
What are the course codes and titles for Laboratory I, Laboratory II, and Modern Analytical Instrumentation?
What is the title and time of the meeting?
What is the policy regarding extensions of time limits for completing a master’s degree?
Does this institution have a campus in Qatar? If so, where is it located?
What are the subjects for each Production Prep class in alphabetical order?
Despite the lack of physical space, what did the university and Computer Science Department establish in another new research frontier?
Where and when does Fang's Artificial Intelligence for Product Managers class take place?
What are the names of the people who teach Directed Reading 3-36?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the Literature and Repertoire classes for Euphonium, Harp Pedagogy, Brass Pedagogy, Beginning Piano for Children II, and Collaborative Project in Music E?
 What does the symbol ⊕ denote in the context of prompt construction?
What are the two Special Topics courses offered in this schedule?
What is the name of the elective studio that Douglas teaches at Chorus 6.0 A TR 04:00PM 05:20PM MM 119?
 How many times did GIDroid find patches that contain edits semantically equivalent to developer patches?
What additional details can be found regarding the Policy Against Retaliation?
What are the names of the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12,15 A2?
What was the result of the match between Women's Tennis and Carnegie Mellon on Friday, September 30th?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in Health Policy?
What is the price of Nike Men's Team Legend Short Sleeve Tee in this store?
 What is the shared Arabic-English vocabulary size for the Zero-shot scenario?
Where does Indaco teach Behavioral Economics?
What is the title of the course taught by Paccagnella at 12:30 PM on Mondays?
 Can the content refer to only methods and instructions?
What are the names of the two courses that start at 6:30 PM on Monday evenings?
Does the MCDS program accept students with external fellowships?
What are the names of the performers in Chamber Music: Woodwind and Mixed 3.0?
What is the name of the person teaching Solfege in this text?
According to Scott, what is one of the main issues that need to be addressed in integrating computer resources into teaching?
What is the course code for Physics Upperclass Colloquium II?
Where are the instructors for the Dissertation Research course located?
Who teaches the 'Introduction to Robotics Business' course and what is its course code?
What is the name of the room where Taylor teaches on Friday mornings?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study in Supervised Teaching?
What is the purpose of the policy against sexual harassment and sexual assault at CMU?
 What is the Strategy most beneficial for XLM-Rlarge with more than 10 examples in the target language in the text?
How long did it take for Lycos to go public?
What are some of the values that Carnegie Mellon University teaches its students?
 What do refactoring approaches aim to achieve in terms of code performance?
What is the name of the city where this study was conducted?
What is the frequency of meetings between Erdmann and Kaynar in this text?
What instrument does each student study?
Who is the curriculum designed for?
What are the days and times of Environmental Performance Simulation?
What is the course name of Acting for Business I B3 TR 04:00PM - 05:45PM in TEP 2119, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What dataset is used for S2ST experiments in the text?
What is the name of the school that Emily Lannen attends?
 What type of programs does the current approach perform well on according to Madaan et al (2023)?
What is the course code for 'Placone Corporate Communications Simulation'?
What is the course duration for each class in this schedule?
When does the course with the course code 10701 take place?
What is the name of the school that Norah Czajka attends?
When and where is Lean Entrepreneurship A3 offered?
What is the location of each course?
What is the purpose of the Office of International Education (OIE) at Carnegie Mellon?
 What type of latency is discussed in Figure 11?
What is the day of the week when Dunigan 84628 class starts?
What are the course codes for Pre-Research Seminar and Reading and Research 1-48?
What was one of the ideas that came out of the Andrew project?
What is the name of the course being taught by Boevers at 11:00AM - 12:20PM on this day?
What is the name of the constitution that governs the operations of the Kiltie Band?
What are the names of the three rehearsals and performances listed in the schedule?
Who is the instructor for Comprehensive Review (Music Ed) 1.0 A4 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the hometown and high school of Akira van de Groenendaal?
What is the policy on dropping courses at SCS?
Who are the teachers teaching Lecture 4 of Concepts of Mathematics (21124)?
What is Maarten Sap's research area of interest?
What is the deadline for submitting letters of recommendation according to this text?
What is the topic of Van Compernolle's lecture?
 What paradigm is proposed in the study?
 How does OWSM v2 perform compared to v1 in all languages?
What is the URL of the Sexual Misconduct Policy?
Which department does Carnegie Scenic belong to?
What is the course code and title of the course that starts at 9:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
How are Student ID Cards deactivated?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What are the locations of Movement and Dance Elective (57213) and German Diction (57223) in this text?
Who teaches Managing Disruptive Technologies class?
What is the purpose of designating an emergency contact address in case of separation from the university?
What is the duration for an MCDS degree under Extended Timing?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 01:00PM in Washington, District of Columbia and lasts for 6.0 credit hours?
What is the exception to this rule that allows certain courses to be taken as Pass/Fail grades?
Who are the authors of the paper discussed in this text?
What is the name of the course that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM in SH 236?
What are the course codes for Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Development (Ly), Organic Chemistry of Polymers (Matyjaszewski), and Molecular Modeling and Computational Chemistry (Kurnikova)?
How tall is Jack Hebert?
Where and when did the NCAA Mid-Atlantic Regional take place?
Who is the instructor for MCS First-Year Seminar 38100 on Mondays?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
 What is the learning rate used for training S2UT models?
What are the names of the instructors for Fundamentals of Software-Defined Networking course?
 Which item bank did Tulsky et al. overview in J. Spinal Cord Med. in 2015c?
What is the name of the course that teaches integrated thinking for innovation?
What are the class timings for Architectural Lighting Design?
What is the purpose of the Gates Hillman Complex (GHC)?
Who teaches Racquetball: 3.0 and Weight Training: 3.0?
When does Intermediate Statistics (course code 36705) meet?
When and where does Stravers 84652 Representation and Voting Rights take place?
What happens if a student fails to maintain Satisfactory Progress?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 3:00 PM to 3:50 PM in room POS A35?
 What evaluation metrics are used to evaluate the recommendation performance of different models?
What are the course codes for Helgeson's Infant development and Auditory Perception classes?
 What is the focus of the work on making scalable meta learning practical?
 What is the main input for the UASR system?
 What linguistic representations are used to annotate each context entity in the text?
 What can slightly improve the final results for datasets like FLEURS and LibriSpeech 960h?
What is discussed in section 4.3.8?
 How are modern structured predictors developed according to the text?
When and where does Reinhart's Machine Learning II class take place on I4 day?
When and where is Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Intro to Rust Lang 3.0 offered?
How many people did Joe Traub invite to join the Computer Science Department in his first year as department head?
 How much data needs to be annotated to obtain good performance using AL?
What is the course code for Internship: Social & Political History 3-12?
 Which cell types were included in the major cell types identified in the scRNA-seq analysis?
Where is the first location mentioned in the text?
 What is the main focus of the paper by Zeyer, Schl¨uter, and Ney?
What are the breadth courses in Machine Learning?
Who is Amber Vivis?
 How is the scenario created to report the results of MixIT ideal in the given text?
Do I have to provide English proficiency scores as part of my application if my native language is not English but I studied at an English language school outside the U.S?
 What does the Open Instruction Generalist dataset target?
What are the dates and times of lecture 12.0 at 9:30 AM on Monday?
When does Elementary Spanish I Online take place?
What are the days and times that class 17445 - Machine Learning in Production: Software Engineering for AI-Enabled Systems is offered?
What department(s) does Graham Neubig belong to?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered at the given time slots?
 How many different religions are mentioned in the text?
Who led the team that built the robots for the TMI sweep up?
What was the date of the game between Carnegie Mellon and Rochester?
What are the grade requirements to earn an LTI Ph.D. degree?
What is the requirement for non-native English speakers in Pennsylvania?
What are the three subjects taught in Production Prep: Dance/Light?
What is the purpose of the Office of Research Integrity & Compliance?
When does Sound Recording Workshop take place?
What is the purpose of Mozisek S 08:30AM 06:00PM CMU REMOTE and B2 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the TV show being discussed in the Student Taught Course (StuCo): Brooklyn Nine-Nine?
What sport is the article about?
What time does the Cellular Neuroscience class start and what are its days?
 What is the second highest average value among the language families?
What is the course code and title of the independent study offered by Haworth?
 Why is it mentioned that Prompt2Model struggles with languages other than English?
What are the names of the instructors teaching classes 67240 Mobile Web Design & Development, 67266 Building Better Web Applications, and 67309 Special Topics: Information Assurance and Security?
 For which scenario did Spoken+Written Text outperform Spoken Text in MCD and CER?
What is the location for all classes mentioned in the text?
What was the result of the UAA Indoor Championships on Sat, Feb/25?
Who teaches the Graduate Reading and Research course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the duration for Independent Study 1-24 in this text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Instructor TBA on Wednesday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What are the three units of Stagecraft that have classes scheduled on this day?
Who are the instructors at this school?
What is the main contribution of Shafi's work on zero-knowledge proofs?
When is Medical Devices held and where is it located?
What is the course name and instructor teaching Writing for the Professions: Writing for the Professions for Data Science Students in PH A19A on MTR at 02:00PM?
 How can AI improve its chess performance over time?
 How do small design decisions affect the ease of attacks on the models?
What is the course title for GHC 4211?
What are the days, times, and locations of all MCS First-Year Seminar 38100?
When is Morris, Formica's Special Topics: Engineering a Startup: How to Start and Grow a Hardware Company class held?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Chip Design?
When does Speech Recognition and Understanding class take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is required for students to satisfy the lab requirement of the PhD in Language and Information Technologies degree?
 What strategy is commonly used in parameter-efficient fine-tuning?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Hertz at DNM?
 How many instances of user-assistant conversations are there in the dataset?
 What algorithm is suggested for reranking during inference?
What is the advice given to students who may have easily handled taking five courses at another institution?
Where is the Directed Reading Mini taking place?
What is the total number of pages in the document?
What is the first name of the author listed as 'Ciccone GG'?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
What are the names of the production preparation classes?
 What is the main topic of reference [17]?
Who was honored by the University Athletic Association (UAA) in this text?
 What is Genetic Improvement (GI) according to the text?
 What was used to calculate the BLEU score of S2TT?
What is the course duration for each course?
 What is the major bottleneck in GBML applications according to the text?
What is the Carnegie Mellon Code referred to in section 1.7?
What is the purpose of the 'Banner', 'Previous', and 'Next' buttons in the Composite Schedule?
 How did Vo et al. (2014) propose to align samples in tomography experiments?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Lean Entrepreneurship A1 TR 02:00PM - 03:45PM and Commercialization and Innovation: Strategy M1 W 08:30PM - 09:45PM?
What is the requirement for transfer credit to satisfy one of the MCDS course requirements?
What is the duration of Sylvania Mitchell's second internship?
Where can students find Workshops on various communication topics at Carnegie Mellon?
When is Fabricating Customization: Prototype offered by Ficca?
What are the names of the teachers who teach in room BH 237B?
What is the purpose of The WORD according to the given text?
What happens when a faculty gives an 'N-1' letter to a student?
Where and when does the B T lecture of 'Sign and Development' take place?
What is the location where MIIS graduate student handbook can be found?
What is the name of the person who will be teaching Collaborative Piano IV class?
What was the date and time of the NCAA Championships?
When and where does Shaw's class take place?
Who is responsible for answering questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint?
 How does the method proposed by Zhang et al. differ from other methods in generating subgoals?
What is the location of the school mentioned in this text?
What is formal logic in mathematical reasoning?
What is the topic discussed in Integrated Innovation for Large-Scale Problems A?
What are the key skills a student needs for conducting research autonomously?
What are the three production preparation classes mentioned in this text that start with 'P'?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Shah?
 What optimization technique was used in the training of the system?
What are the requirements for admission into Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What are the additional learning outcomes for students electing to complete the Analytics concentration?
Where can MIIS students find information from other LTI professional master’s programs about their poster sessions?
Who is the Associate Professor at Language Technologies Institute?
Who are the authors who conducted the fourth and fifth undergraduate research projects mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the fifth instructor listed?
 What scoring approach is used in time synchronous beam search to synchronize the word-based language model with a character-based end-to-end ASR?
 Which languages were excluded in the comparison case for supervised learning?
What are the course codes and instructors for all classes offered in HH B103?
What is the class name and day for the class that meets at PH A19 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Where was the polluted aerosol layer mainly concentrated during the haze?
What are the names of the teachers and their respective classrooms?
What are the days and times for Phd Econometrics I?
What happens if my expired TOEFL score is over two years old?
Who are the authors of this text?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What is the purpose of providing Ph.D. students with access to the LTI’s computer cluster?
Who are the instructors at the undergraduate research program in philosophy?
What are the two Ph.D. programs offered by the institution?
Is there a specific handbook for Ph.D. graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What percentage of the student-athletes earned a 3.50 GPA or better?
How many sections of Writing for the Professions are there, and who teaches them?
What are the class names and days for Massaro O4?
What happens to a student who takes pass/fail or audit grades for courses used to satisfy their degree requirement?
What are the course codes for Tepper PhD and Graduate Reading & Research?
Who provides professional assistance and advice on all-things information at the University Libraries?
 What evaluation scripts were adopted for retrieval evaluations and reader evaluations?
What are some of GSA's recent accomplishments?
What are the names and instructors of the two Scenic Design classes?
How many offices are listed under 'Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety' and what is the name of the office that provides medical support to students?
 What is the purpose of introducing a blank token ⟨b⟩ for alignment in E2E models such as RNN-T and CTC?
 How many runs are the presented results averaged over?
What is the location of the thesis preparation workshop mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times of the Lighting Production class?
What was the final score of the Women's Basketball game between Chicago and Carnegie Mellon?
 How was repetition prevented during generation, and what penalty was applied to repeated 2-gram units?
Who should F-1 or J-1 students consult for immigration regulation compliance?
What does cultural tolerance mean according to Carnegie Mellon's academic policies?
What should I provide as my current address?
Who are the instructors for Grande Gutierrez's classes?
What are the names of the two professors teaching in Pittsburgh?
When and where will 'The American Railroad: Decline and Renaissance in the Age of Deregulation' be held?
Where and when did Women's Tennis play against Duquesne?
Who teaches the course Teaching Techniques for Computer Science: Concepts in Artificial Intelligence?
What are LTI academic policies according to the text?
What is the date of the softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Emory?
Who did Tartans play on February 24, 2024?
What was the date of the Tartans' match against Oberlin in 2024?
What is the course name and time for Academic Skills for Engineers II A3?
 What is the purpose of SemanticSTF dataset mentioned in the text?
 What was the success rate of the Heuristic Only method in the real world OVMM task?
What was the reaction to Berliner's 1999 book 'The System: A World Champion's Approach to Chess'?
What additional resources are available at the university mentioned in this text?
 How does GIDroid aim to address the inherent trade-offs between non-functional properties in mobile apps?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Stump?
How many likes does this page have according to the text?
What does the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook provide for students pursuing a Ph.D. in Language Technology?
What is the role of the Program Director of graduate programs in LTI PhD students' presentations?
 What method based on SHAP analysis can increase the regard of the sentence, representing a promising approach towards debiasing the output of LLMs?
How can performing well in the Master's program in Computational Data Science benefit a PhD application?
What is the title of the course taught by Schwartz in WEH 5403 at 11:00 AM?
What are the names of the classes that start at 12:00 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What are the names of the classes that start with 'A'?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-12 for Instructor TBA 90954 and Instructor TBA 90976?
What happens if students fail to complete the Form I-9 in a timely manner?
Where can students find a summary of the university’s graduate student appeal and grievance procedures?
How many faculty members shared offices according to A. Nico Habermann's memo to CMU President Dick Cyert?
 What was the funding support for this work?
What is the course title for WEH 4625?
What is the name of Gogolak's classroom?
What are the course codes and titles offered in the Fundamentals of Water Quality Engineering class?
 How much of the first languages of people in the world do the existing systems included in GlobalBench cover?
How did Nico manage to serve different constituencies within the department?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Supervised Reading and Introduction to Nuclear and Particle Physics?
 What is the weighting scheme for the entities in the query vector CQ?
What are the names of the courses offered in Carnegie Scenic?
 How is the ASR system adapted to the target domain?
What is the course code of the Applied Cell and Molecular Biology course offered by Wong-Noonan and Brasier?
 What did the results demonstrate regarding CODELLAMA and GPT-3.5?
What are the names of the people who hold positions at Language Technologies Institute School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the time schedule for each course in the passage?
What is the purpose of including information about internships in a student's academic record?
 How is the lower bound for k trivially estimated?
What is the purpose of Group Appointments in Communication Support?
 What is CodeXGLUE and what tasks does it involve?
Can I apply to a Ph.D. program with only an undergraduate degree?
 By how much does the model outperform the SOTA model on MOCHA-TIMIT?
What is the purpose of the text?
What is the course title and credit hours of the Urban Design Media: Emerging Media course taught by Professor Li?
 What algorithm is applied for maximum spanning tree induction in the text?
What is the name of the person who will be working on video & media design for Brown's schedule?
What are the days and times of Danes' Design and Documentation in Revit VAR?
Who teaches Print and Resistance in Advanced DP3: Photobook?
What are University Libraries?
 Based on the given context, would B.A and bachelor likely link to the same article on Wikipedia?
 How many crowdworkers were used for GPT-4 output annotation in the study?
 What does the extinction coefficient reflect in the text?
What is the course 'Practicum in Teaching Laboratory Methods' about?
What time does the course 'Introduction to Freestyle Rap' start?
 What does S(q, d) represent in the scoring equation for retriever systems?
 What is the name of the tool that was tested on 21 benchmarks targeting runtime, memory, and bandwidth use?
What are the course codes and titles of the three classes that start at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays?
 Which datasets are evaluated in GLoRA on VTAB-1K benchmark?
Who are the instructors for the production preparation courses for Ottone in Villa?
 What is the variance associated with the performance value of 95.87 for PiCO+ w/ Mixup?
What were the departments and schools that Herbert Simon contributed to at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What are some examples of functional abilities of the transplanted limb that can be evaluated?
When and where does Helin's Elementary Korean II class take place?
What does the admission process for Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology involve?
What is the working atmosphere at Microsoft Research like according to Draves?
 Why do sequence-to-sequence models generally outperform encoder-based approaches?
What is the course code for Fundamentals of Business and Management?
In which section is the Sexual Misconduct Policy discussed?
What are the two options for completing a degree in this program?
When was Lai honored by AVCA as All-Region and what is the context of this recognition?
What is the course code for Research Training: Modern Languages: 3,6,9,12?
What school did Nolan Hughes attend before high school?
What is the A.M. Turing Award?
What are the names of the professors who teach Calculus II for Biologists and Chemists?
In what year did Carnegie Institute of Technology merge with the nearby Mellon Institute of Industrial Research to form Carnegie-Mellon University?
Does Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science have any campuses other than the one in Pittsburgh?
What is the purpose of Maternity Accommodations?
When and where does Tomprou teach Business Communications: TBA E MW?
What is the minimum number of ECTS credits required for students to obtain their degree?
What are the class times and locations for Teaching Practicum (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Helgeson) and Professional Development (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Donahoe)?
When and where does the 'Spacecraft Design-Build-Fly Laboratory' course take place?
In which section of this text is information about academic calendars discussed?
What is the course name for Lamont's class that meets from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room A18B?
Who teaches 'Secure Software Systems'?
What is the course code for Introduction to Question Answering?
What is the name of the instructor for Introduction to Chemical Engineering course?
 What improvements in latency were observed for English to German, Spanish, and French using the proposed IBWBS compared to the original BWBS?
 Why is the TPMS algorithm chosen for experiments mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes and their respective locations for the two courses mentioned in the text?
What is the class location for Stochastic Calculus?
What is the subject of Liang's class?
Which instructor is teaching Production Preparation: SOM 3 in WEH 5201 at 6:30 PM on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 02:00PM on Tuesdays?
What is the personal best time for athlete number 10 in the 400-meter dash?
What is the purpose of Family and Dependents Resources?
What is the course name and location for Special Topics: Principles & Practices of R&D Management?
What is the location of the third class mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the courses offered in Advanced Project Management and Leadership Identity?
Where are the courses held?
What time does the 'Introduction to Casting' course start?
 What were the fitting indices R2X, R2Y, and Q2 values in the OPLS-DA analysis?
 What benefits were observed for the proposed improved BWBS on English to French compared to the original BWBS?
What is the name of the program that Amber Vivis manages?
What is Bhiksha Ramakrishnan's research area?
What is the course code for Vairo's Beyond the Mafia and Michelangelo?
What is the name of the first course mentioned in the text?
Where is the search form located on this website?
When and where does Applied Cryptography lecture take place?
What is the name of the act that guarantees reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities?
Who is teaching the class at 5:00 PM on Wednesday?
What was the significance of the A.M. Turing Award?
 What is one of the capabilities required for agents to perform tasks in interactive environments?
What is the name of the course taught by Larocca C?
 How are the annotators exposed to offensive content protected?
What is the purpose of the Computing Services department?
 In the false belief scenario with Natalie and Michal, where does Natalie mistakenly think the ring is?
What does Rashid believe is the main focus of research at Microsoft Research?
In which room does the lecture 'Undergraduate Seminar III' take place?
 What influential factors are identified for the non-uniformity of a tokenizer across languages?
What are the locations of their classes?
What are the names of the courses offered by ooqi 70505?
What are the course names and their respective days/times in Business Value Through Integrative Analytics?
What is the topic of the text?
What are the days, times, and locations of Mr. Handel's Intro to Writing the Television Pilot class?
What position does Player 20 play?
When was the Language Technologies Institute joined on Twitter?
When is the Production Prep session for Video & Media led by Gloria held?
Who can receive transfer credit at the end of semester evaluation?
Will non-Carnegie Mellon or cross-registration program courses affect academic actions, honors, or decisions?
How many credits does the Senior Capstone II class have?
Who are the authors of this text?
What are the days of the week when each class is held?
What are the two courses offered by Kilinc-Karzan at Optimization O3 and P3?
What are the topics discussed in section 5 of this text?
Where can students find the Graduate Financial Aid Guide mentioned in the text?
What was the topic of PhD Student Ankit Shah's winning project at the NYC AI Hackathon?
Who is the instructor for Role Playing Games Writing Workshop?
What is the name of the course held in room POS 152 on Tuesday at 02:00 PM?
Who is the instructor for D class?
How long does it typically take to complete the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) program?
What is the title of the first-year seminar that takes place on TR 11:00AM - 12:20PM in SH 234 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What kind of educational experience does the university aim to provide?
What is the purpose of Emergency Support Funding?
 What is the tallest mountain in the world?
What are the names of the two classes that start at 9:30 AM and end at 10:50 AM on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday?
Where are these people from?
What are the main departments included in the Division of Student Affairs?
Where is the lecture for Ada, Saad B F held?
 How did the near-surface temperature change at the beginning of the relative pollution period on February 8?
What is considered a serious violation in the university?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Volleyball at CUC W GYM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times of the class 'Design of Artificial Intelligence Products'?
What is the name of the course being taught by Instructor TBA at Integrated Innovation Institute?
What is the name of the author listed as Goeres, Shields NA?
What is the purpose of End of Semester Evaluation?
What services does UHS offer besides direct health care?
What are the names of the departments listed in the text?
How far is Penn Station East Coast Subs from campus?
 What is the inflection point calculated in the study for the relationship between AGR and OS?
What was the final score of the game between Carnegie Mellon and Case Western Reserve?
What are the class times for Scenic Design E?
Who are Aayush Ahuja, Harshith Arun Kumar, Dhruv Arya, and Mur?
What are the three courses being offered in this schedule?
What is the name of the institution where Independent Study Economics and Sustainability, Energy, and Environmental Economics are offered?
Where is the main office of the Language Technologies Institute located?
In what room does Blando's Professional Development Seminar take place?
Where does Rose offer Undergrad Independent Study 3-12?
When was the first computer system capable of continuous speech recognition developed?
Who are the opponents in the games scheduled for Wednesday, April 20th and Thursday, April 7th?
What are the course codes for Shen's Special Topics in HCI Learning Analytics and Educational Data Science?
When and where does Physical Chemistry (Thermo): Macroscopic Principles of Physical Chemistry A M take place?
 What is the main reason for the poor prognosis of patients with high CD8+TILs and CTL?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Literary and Cultural Studies?
What are the names of the professors teaching Advanced Economic Analysis II (Adv. Econometrics) and Structural Models?
What is the course code for Communications Studio II: Designing Communications for Interactions?
What happens if a student fails to meet the research speaking requirement in LTI PhD programs?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
When does Zajdel's Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering class take place?
 Why does the text propose working at the intersection of NLP and psychology?
What are the courses under Breadth Courses: Language Technology Applications that can be counted as approved qualifying courses for SCS relevant to MIIS degree other than LTI?
What are the three courses being offered by Thomas in Foundations of Software Management?
What degree did Edmund Melson Clarke receive from the University of Virginia in 1967?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What are the days and times for Smith's Convex Optimization course?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: External Projects: Dramatic Writing?
What are the names of the courses that start with each letter from A to C in the given text?
What is the course name and instructor for Physics III: Modern Essentials?
What is the purpose of the LTI Orientation Canvas course?
Where will Musical Theatre Literature and Repertoire be held?
What are the course codes for Dietrich College Interdisciplinary Study Abroad and Dietrich Introductory Seminar: College & University Success Strategies?
 What is the objective of the global probabilistic message-passing algorithm based on expectation propagation?
What is the role of a department, unit, or program in the grade appeal process?
Who won the top prize at the NYC AI Hackathon?
What is an 'interactive proof' according to Shafi and Micali?
 What is the importance of the second step in the extraction methodology?
How many programs produced at least a 3.40 team GPA?
Who teaches Differential Equations 9.0 Lec 2 at DH 1212 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the prerequisite core courses for an MCDS degree?
What is the location of the first course mentioned in the text?
Where is the rehearsal and performance of 'Love and Money' located?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
What is the name of the course that starts at 9:00 AM and ends at 11:50 AM on Wednesday?
What is the title of the course being taught by Gajic?
What is the name of the person who will be teaching Lighting Design I?
What are the days and times for Intermediate German II 9.0 A TR 12:30PM 01:50PM WEH 5316 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes for Financial and Managerial Accounting II offered by Ytsma in Business Administration 45701?
What is the course code for Senior Capstone II?
What is the name of the event where Carnegie Mellon's women's swimming and diving team competes?
 How was the quality and representativeness of the dataset verified?
Who is responsible for paying referral fees to emergency rooms or specialists?
When is the Production Practicum class held for students who choose option B?
 What does the third paper discussed in the text focus on?
Where can a student find more information about applying to programs at the Language Technologies Institute?
Who is the instructor for Digital Art Studio A (Entertainment Design Studio) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Which model is considered the SOTA direct S2TT model in the text?
Who teaches Decision Theory at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What position did the Justice Department lawyer hold in 1962?
 What is the reward chosen to control the response safety while preserving dialogue quality in the study?
 How many genes are implicated in the microarray studies that also form voice chains for DISP1, LEFTY1, LEFTY2, and BPNT1?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
What are the course codes for Undergraduate Research, Introduction to Nuclear and Particle Physics, Advanced Quantum Physics II, and Introduction to Solid State?
Where and when does Graduate Independent Study take place?
Where and when does Adeinat teach Marketing Research?
 How many system submissions are there for NER and KG Link Tail Prediction?
 What types of encoders are present in the WavLM model?
 What quality improvement in terms of BLEU scores was observed for systems with a latency of approximately 1.7 seconds for English to German, Spanish, and French?
What are the course codes for Professor Oppenheimer's two undergraduate research courses ('88397 SDS Undergraduate Research - mini VAR' and '88398 Independent Study 1-18 A')?
What are the class times for Jha's sections of Applied Econometrics?
What resources are available for graduate students seeking off-campus housing at Carnegie Mellon University?
What position does Shane Hauck play?
What is the current winning streak of the Tartan Men's Tennis team in the 2023-24 season?
Why was Berliner's initial backgammon program not efficient?
How can financial gifts be used at LTI?
What are the steps students need to follow to complete registration within SIO?
What is the name of the lab that focuses on Speech Recognition and Understanding?
When does the Graduate Research VAR A start?
 What are some of the enhancements in OpenMatch-v2?
What is the course code for Studio Independent Study 5-10?
What is the title of the course that takes place on TR 11:00AM - 12:20PM in 3SC 110 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep for Want to be a Mother?
Who encouraged Rashid to take a basic course in Algol-W programming language?
What is the role of Campus Wellness in promoting student's physical and mental health?
What is the minimum number of units required to meet the U.S. government’s visa requirement?
What is the title of Dissertation Research by Brown?
What are the days and times that Engineering & Public Policy 19797 and Engineering & Public Policy 19798 are offered?
What does 'TBA' mean in this context?
What are the three classes being taught by Ion and Levin-Decanini in Programming Usable Interfaces?
What is the purpose of sharing information about the Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete Alumni Mentoring Program?
 How many different volatile chemical components were identified in the branch exudates and dried fruits of Schisandra?
What types of payment are accepted for purchasing football tickets?
What is the purpose of the 7.3 Key Offices section in the text?
Who are the authors of this article?
What is the name of the person teaching the 'Scenic Design: Explorations' course?
In what room is Van Compernolle's Topics in Second Language Acquisition: Second Language Acquisition and Technology class held?
When and where is the Introduction to Probability Theory class held?
What is the location of Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for each activity in the given text?
What are the dates and times of Strategic Corporate Management course?
 What evaluation metric was used to assess speech intelligibility?
When does the Financial Data Science I class take place in Pittsburgh?
When is the final application deadline for Fall 2024?
 In which year was the dataset FMA for music analysis introduced?
What was Reddy's role in getting DARPA work started on user interfaces and workstations?
What is the course code for Introduction to Information Security?
What are the days and times of the third class listed in the schedule?
 How many epochs were the FLAN-T5 variants finetuned for?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Wednesday at 11:00 AM in room HBH 2008?
Who are the instructors for 'Cloud Security' course?
What was Berliner's next program after 'Chess as Problem Solving'?
What are the names of the courses offered on Tuesday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What are the names of the teachers/instructors in each event?
 What is the primary advantage of using Unlimiformer when fine-tuning transformer models?
Who are the speakers in the New Pedagogies: Unsettling Ground- Retiring the God View session?
 What criteria can we consider to determine if an AI is sentient?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Computer Science?
How does CMU-Alert send messages to registered phones?
What is the name of the center that focuses on student diversity and inclusion?
When does the Organic Chemistry of Polymers class meet?
What are the dates for the Mechanical Engineering 24051 Study Abroad program?
 What model is used to generate visual embeddings and an initial diarization result in the AVSD module?
Where and when is the class taught by Kwon D?
What are the application instructions for graduate admissions at this institution?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study in Literature and Repertoire?
What happens if the student does not confirm the drop within 24 hours of receiving the automated voucher email?
Where can students find tuition information in this text?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor H at DNM Pittsburgh?
 What does CAPE stand for and how is it calculated?
What is the recent area of research that Dr. Shafi has been exploring?
What is the name of the class that teaches Production Preparation on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday from 11 AM to 3 PM?
What is the name of the course that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 7:00 PM to 8:50 PM in GHC 4215?
What is the name of Tardio's class 'Introduction to Hispanic Literary and Cultural Studies'?
Where can students find information about athletic and fitness facilities at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on MWF from 10:00AM to 10:50AM at CUC FITNES in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How do the relation extraction results compare between PA and FA in the text?
Where is this text located?
 What are some forms of corrosion pit mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for Maker Series: Intro to Modern Making?
What can you do on the 'Connect' page?
Who are the people responsible for administering the LTI Ph.D. degree?
What kind of laboratories did Computer Science need according to Scott?
 How many key volatile substances were obtained in dried fruits and branch exudates after VIP screening?
What instrument does Ferla specialize in at his music studies studio?
 What is the conclusion drawn about FROMAGe in the text?
What is the purpose of the 'Research' section on this page?
According to the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook, what is a unique feature about Carnegie Mellon?
What are the names of all instructors teaching courses at Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How are model parameters characterized in the text?
What are the course codes and instructors for all classes offered by Hilton, Feo in POS 147?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in Production Prep for Macbeth?
What is the name of the instructor for the Major Studio (Bassoon) class?
Who teaches Race, Nation, and the Enemy in room 6423 at Wean Hall?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the name of the elective studio class taught by Marcinizyn?
 What are the benefits of writing tests mentioned in the text?
Where and when is the Marty Goldberg Gator Invitational taking place?
 How were sentences in the test sets length-matched to control for difficulty?
 What is the key feature of Android apps that makes them incompatible with traditional tooling?
Where can you find more information about the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
 Why was replacing mel-spectrogram with learned discrete codebooks proposed in the research?
What time does the class start for Production Prep: John Proctor: Scenic Design?
What event was honored by the CMU Basketball Team on February 04, 2024?
What is the course code for 'Information Networking Institute 14310'?
What is the purpose of a Directed Study in the MIIS program?
What are the courses taught by Instructor TBA for Graduate Reading and Research 85781?
Once I begin a Ph.D. program in SCS, is it possible to change to another program?
Where is the Calculus II lecture held on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is the name of the study abroad program mentioned?
What is the course title that starts at 12:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room PH A20?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Production Prep: SOM 3: Costume Design G'?
Who is Chase Collignon?
When does Thesis Seminar take place?
Who was inducted into the 2023 class of the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval (SIGIR) Academy?
What is the seating capacity of Gesling Stadium?
 How do language models overcome their limited knowledge?
What are the class times for the 'Detailing Architecture' course?
 Why is OTDD considered effective for data alignment despite being expensive to compute?
 Which existing measures are recommended for assessing functional abilities of the transplanted limb after UE transplant according to the text?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Literature and Repertoire 3-9 A?
Who is the instructor for Akinci's class?
What are the names of the courses taught by Whipple and Mead, respectively?
What is the name of the course where students learn about Singers?
What is discussed in section 6.15 of the text?
Who is the instructor for Solid Mechanics?
Is it mandatory for applicants to submit SAT Subject Tests at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where is Entrepreneurship Through Acquisition E1 M 06:30PM - 09:50PM held?
What does the Gates Hillman Complex provide?
What are the days and times when course 15213 has lecture K?
What are the days and times for Ghani's Federated and Collaborative Learning course?
What is the status of course registration?
 What is the main factor that influences the prestress loss in the concrete?
What is the purpose of the #SCS25 event?
 In the conclusion, what does the text hope to achieve through the work on DSR-LM?
 How many parameters does GPT-3 contain?
 What method does TASTE propose to better characterize user behaviors?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Scenic Design and Carnegie Scenic?
 In which types of applications are Large Language Models (LLMs) being used as adaptable policies?
When and where will the Music and Triads: Before/Beyond Roman Numerals in Western Music class be held?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Dr. Smith and Weber in this semester?
What is the duration of study for an MLT degree at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code of Probability and Statistics for Business Applications: 9.0?
How are grades graded in all courses offered by the SCS CMU?
 Who are thanked for their contribution to the peer review of the work in Nature Climate Change?
 What are Symbolic Rewards in the Fact-RLHF algorithm?
Who are the teachers for each area of Production Prep for Macbeth and when are they scheduled?
 Why is Whisper large not included in the comparison in Table 2?
What instrument does Laduke teach at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'Production Prep' and end with 'Media Design'?
Who are the instructors for Keyboard Studies class?
 How long did it take to train the largest CHARM model on 5 A6000 GPUs?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
 What was the name of the first African-American lawyer in the Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department?
 What is the main advantage of leveraging the strong instruction-following capabilities of LLMs for claim extraction?
What is the URL for a full schedule of professional development opportunities offered by the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE)?
What is the purpose of engaging with partners outside the traditional borders of the university campus?
What are the days of the week when each course is held at CMU REMOTE?
What is the contact information for Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
Where does Ralf work?
What are the days and times of the Responsible AI - Principles, Policies and Practices class?
What tradition did Rashid start during his tenure at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the two Beginning Tennis classes offered at CUC TENNIS in Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the course offered by Chiu E in period F?
Who should contact if there are questions about the application process?
What is the name of the course offered by TBA at DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What facilities does Carnegie Mellon offer related to athletics and fitness?
What is a semester in an academic calendar?
 What semantic tasks are encompassed in the benchmark mentioned in the text?
 What is advised to prevent misuse of the Jais-chat 13B model?
What is the name of the course offered on Tuesday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
When is the class 'Kant' held?
What was announced in May 10, 2017?
 How many preceding sentences in a document were considered in the experiments mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Major Studio (Saxophone) 9.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the name of the re-ranker proposed in the paper?
What are the circumstances that may warrant a grade appeal?
What is the schedule of the SOM 3 class on Saturday?
What is the purpose of the compost program in Athletic office areas?
What is the strategic plan of GSA?
How can students obtain a copy of Carnegie Mellion University's annual security and fire safety report?
Who are the three people mentioned in this text?
Who is the instructor of Graduate Laboratory and Thesis Research courses?
What is integrated undergraduate and master’s degree programs?
What is the location of Independent Study 6.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the university where the Language Technologies Institute is located?
What kind of events does the Graduate Student Assembly organize?
What is the name of the person responsible for lighting design in the production of Lonely Planet?
What is the name of the independent study course mentioned in this text?
 How is the latent variable I introduced to modify Equation (1) in the proposed method?
 What was compared in the noise robustness analysis between TDT and RNNT ASR models?
 How is the mucosal wave represented in the body-cover assumption of vocal folds?
What is the name of the instructor for the course '67415 Cyber Ethics and Regulation'?
What is the course title offered on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
What is GSA's role in advocating for legislative action?
What is the location of the course 'Introduction to Software Engineering' and what are its timings?
What services does the university's Career & Professional Development Center provide?
What should graduate students do if they need immediate funds for emergency situations?
How can students make appointments at UHS?
Who teaches the 'Advanced Synthesis Options' course that starts at 1:00 PM on Tuesdays in room MM 312?
What are the names of the instructors for Diamond Sports A4?
What is the location of Photography 5,10 A?
 What is the impact of query rewriting techniques on multilingual document-grounded question-answering systems according to the study?
 How does the over-determined conditions affect the ill-posed task of unsupervised speech separation?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
What are the names of the courses offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that have a duration of 0.0 A2?
What are the titles of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 12:00 PM to 1:50 PM?
What is the class time for 54635?
What is required for employment eligibility verification?
 How does the speech decoder Ψ in the Im2Sp model generate speech units?
 What is the goal of the optional sub-track in the CHiME-7 DASR challenge?
Where does Introduction to Computational Biology take place on weekends?
When and where are Readings in Literature held?
 How is SELF-REFINE used to refine mathematical problem-solving outputs?
Where are the two courses 'Speech Recognition and Understanding' and 'Introduction to Deep Learning and Pattern Recognition for Computer Vision Part I' held?
What are the two main programs offered by the Eberly Center?
Under what circumstances can a student have an extended or longer-than-standard Completion?
What is the time slot for Production Prep: Put Your House in Order for Scenic Design?
What are the course codes, instructors, and times for Machine Learning in Production (Goel 17745)?
 What is a limitation mentioned regarding the estimation of wind energy and solar PV?
In which room does the 'Role Playing Game Writing Workshop' take place?
What is the address of SCS?
 What are the initial conditions used for solving equations (30)-(31) in the text?
What are the dates and times of Principles and Engineering Applications of AI class?
What is the name of the person who has a meeting at 9:00 AM on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday in room BH A53?
How can one contact Scott Fahlman?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study 1-36 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can the hotline help Carnegie Mellon University uphold its commitment to business ethics?
 What is the purpose of the DACS approach mentioned in the text?
Where is The Pricing of Products & Services held, and what are its days and times?
What are the class names and their respective days/times for Albertus B?
Who is working for the Costume Production section?
What are the course codes and their respective meeting times for Biological Transport and Drug Delivery, Neural Signal Processing, Cellular Biomechanics, Cardiovascular Mechanics, and Bioinstrumentation?
Where is the instructor for Mediated Power and Propaganda located?
What was the best finish for the Tartans in the annual Learfield Directors’ Cup standings?
What are the names of the instructors who offer these courses?
In which section can students find information about the degree program offered by MIIS?
What is the title of the course that starts at TBA on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday in PH A18B?
How can graduate students access the document summarizing processes for appeals and grievances at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is the course 'Elementary Guided Teaching' held?
What is the purpose of section 2.3 in the text?
 How was the wind speed at 100 m estimated in the analysis?
Who are the instructors teaching 'Transport Process Laboratory (9.0)' in the Fall semester of 2021?
What are the names of Mackey's classes in POS 151?
When and where is Professor Webler's lecture for Metal-Environment Reactions?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Introduction to Philosophy in lecture 4?
 What were the results of combining CUTTLEFISH with Frobenius decay across various machine learning tasks?
 What is the formula used to compute the closed-form solution in the text?
 How do HeteroFL and SplitMix perform on unbalanced Dirichlet partitions compared to FedAvg?
What are the days and times of the 'Introduction to Experimental Chemistry' course offered by Peteanu?
What is the course code and title of the Acting for Leadership and Communication course offered on Monday, Wednesday from 3:30 PM to 4:50 PM?
Are fee waivers available for the application process?
Which player from Illinois, USA is playing in position D with the number 4 on her jersey?
What is the purpose of the process mentioned in the text?
 Which test set saw the highest increase in automatic metrics due to the combination of sentence upweighting and kNN-MT?
Who is the instructor at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual) for Viola F?
What is the course code for 'Crosscultural Psychology: 9.0'?
What are the approved qualifying courses for MIIS students?
Who serves as an advocate for students during evaluations in MIIS program?
Where is the Instructor of Editing and Publishing located?
Which university played a final game in softball against Maryville (TN) on the Composite Calendar?
What is the course code for 'Baroque Ensemble'?
What are the steps a student needs to take before starting an independent study?
Who is the instructor at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course title and instructor's name for the lecture held on Monday at 04:00PM-05:20PM?
Who teaches the Production Prep: Passage Stage Management course?
What is Reddy's membership status according to the text?
What are the dates and times of class 82888?
How much did sponsored research in the Computer Science Department increase between 1982 and 1985?
 What is the main factor that influences the performance improvement of programming languages during training?
What are the course codes for the courses offered in this schedule?
Who is the instructor for the course 'Scenic Painting II'?
Where does this undergraduate research program take place?
Who is the instructor for the course starting with 'P'?
 How can one apply to study in MBZUAI?
 What measurement is used to evaluate SST outputs?
What are the names of the instructors for Advanced Solfege II and Repertoire and Listening for Musicians I courses?
Where can graduate students find the Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures?
 How does the algorithm ensure consistency in distribution matching for the tokens returned?
What are the names of the courses taught by Cervesato and Kaynar in Pittsburgh?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Maya' and who teaches it?
Who are the instructors listed in this text that have a last name starting with 'D'?
What is the name of the course offered by Brandon Wall?
What was Chan's position in Golfweek DIII Fall Invite according to the news on October 16, 2023?
What are the names of the instructors for the courses 57923 and 57944?
 Why was a better correlation between κchem and κccn observed at SS of 0.1%?
What is the course code for Medical Robotics?
What is the time slot of the 'Special Topics in ICT: Machine Learning for Earth Observation' class?
 How is the sequence transformed before being mapped to probability distributions for MHA and FFN gates?
What are the options for completing the remaining 24 units of MLT degree requirements?
What is the name of the instructor for student B, DNM in Major Studio (Piano)?
How many practice-oriented course units must complete for both MIIS-16 and MIIS-21 programs?
Where can graduate students find the Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures?
Where is Feedback Control Systems held? What are the days and times of this class?
When and where does Silverman 84624 The Future of Democracy take place?
 What is the purpose of the `multi_solutions` list in the text?
What is the purpose of the Black and Latinx Athlete Coalition?
What are the dates and times for each of Penelope's production prep classes?
Who should Ph.D. students consult for eligibility before seeking an internship?
Who instructs Design Studies: Place 51175?
What are the days and times of Rafson's course?
What is the purpose of determining if early degree certification is allowed?
What is the course name for 67328 in the given text?
What is the name of the ensemble that will perform Percussion Literature and Repertoire at M 12:30PM in CFA ACH?
What is the phone number of Alexander Hauptmann?
 What are the dimensions shown in Table 1 for the BERT PyTorch models on RTX-8000?
What is the location of the school mentioned in the text?
Where is the instructor for Special Topics in Literature & Culture Immigrant Fictions located?
 What is the key feature of the expectation propagation algorithm in the federated learning setting?
Who is teaching Production Prep: Sender: Scenic Design?
What is the purpose of publishing a campus security and fire safety report?
 What is the name of the benchmark introduced to evaluate the performance of Self-Supervised Learning (SSL) models on speech processing tasks?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in Digital Innovation and AI?
What is the course name and location of Iwasaki's class in Doha, Qatar?
What are the university's expectations around academic integrity?
What is the name of Penelope's production prep class?
What are the days and times for Biology for Life Special Topics: Tropical Ecology course offered by Instructor TBA?
What is the duration of the study abroad course?
What does the abbreviation CFA stand for in the context of this text?
What accommodations are provided by the university for students who give birth during the semester?
What is the event that starts at 10:30 a.m. on Saturday, March 2nd?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Matrix Algebra with Applications and Multivariate Calculus?
What are the time slots for Graduate Directing: Text to Stage?
 Which RNA polymerase inhibitors may be active against inﬂuenza C and D viruses according to the text?
What is the name of the event on February Fri. 9?
 What determines the source of excitation of the vocal tract in producing voiced sounds?
What was the critical path analysis insight that led to a curriculum change in 1969?
What is Tom Mitchell's title and department at Language Technologies Institute?
What is the consequence if students do not enroll each semester in at least 36 units that count towards their current degree level?
What are the course codes and titles for the classes listed in the schedule?
What are some other types of information associated with natural language mentioned in the text?
What is Yonatan Bisk's email address?
How many sections are there in the text?
Who teaches the Advanced Natural Language Processing course?
What is the name of the instructor at Studio (2nd semester) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where is Seminar in Finance III (Financial Institutions & Markets) held?
 What is the focus of the Wavlab submission to The Clarity ICASSP 2023 Grand Challenge?
 What challenges are mentioned in training LLMs that support audio processing?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at NSH 3002 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the authors of this text?
What are the names of Routledge's courses?
Where and when does Gutschow teach Architecture Design Studio: Praxis Studio 2?
What is the main focus of section 2 in this text?
What is the course title of the class taught by Hahl in room TEP 2612 at the University of Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the instructor for Secure Software Systems?
What are the course codes for Sculpture II and Black and White Photography I?
What are the course codes for Advanced Data Analysis II, Writing in Statistics, Information Theory and Statistics, Interdisciplinary Applied Research, all three sections of Branson's section, and all instructors listed in this text?
When does the second event take place?
What is the name of the course that teaches about 'Introduction to Competitive Magic: The Gathering'?
What is the name of the lecture that starts at 9:00 AM in room CFA 214 and discusses 'Multiple-Making Approach to Inquiry in Craft + Computation'?
What is the name of the course that Sooriamurthi B2 has taken?
How many classes are taught by Williams in this schedule?
What are the course names offered in the given schedule?
What are the key skills a student needs when presenting their research in an international context?
 What is the significance of prefix decoding in the backend models for streaming algorithms?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this page?
Where can graduate students find information about financial aid?
What does MIIS stand for in this context?
Who are the authors of this text?
Who can obtain their ID card from The HUB once they are entered into SIO for the semester?
What is the name of the instructor for Production Prep: Macbeth: Scenic Design?
Where was the thesis preparation workshop held that Cardoso Llach attended?
 Which models are used as baselines in the GPT-4 evaluation for Arabic content?
What is the name of the instructor for the Special Topics in Music: Acting A class?
What are some recent accomplishments of GSA?
What is the main focus of the innovation overview section according to the text?
Who teaches Introduction to Convex Optimization?
What is the name of the course taught by Christel R Stevens in the text?
What is the course code and instructor for Independent Study in Computer Science offered by Stehlik?
 What synthesis method is supported for spectral and discrete inputs in S2ST models in ESPnet-ST-v2?
According to the given text, what is DNM in this context?
What are the topics of the courses offered on Tuesday at 9:30 AM?
What are the contact details for M.S. Graduate Project I (Electrical & Computer Engineering 18980)?
Where and when does the Stage Management Seminar take place?
What are the names of the courses that start at TBA?
What should students do if they have been impacted by any of the issues mentioned in the text?
What is the location of the event?
What kind of help can a Plaidvocate provide?
What happens if there is discovery that the work upon which a degree was based or academic records in support of it had been falsified?
What is the purpose of the given URL?
How can students begin the process for receiving accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the courses mentioned in this text?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
Who are the authors of the text?
 What type of questions does Commonsense reasoning require?
 What type of data does Mixtec represent among the sets in the text?
 Which network architecture is the LLM based on in this study?
What instrument does Caballero play in the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
 What is the main challenge in machine learning regarding annotated data?
When do the applications for Machine Learning Joint Ph.D., Master of Science in Information Technology - Privacy Engineering, and Master of Software Engineering Application open?
Who should students contact for questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint?
What are some low-resource scenarios for technology-rich languages like English?
What is the course name and instructor for BXA Studio (4th semester)?
Who is Weild and what are his/her scheduled events?
What is the main focus of Dr. Lori Levin's work?
Who teaches Designing the Digital Economy (course code 73369)?
What resources does Carnegie Mellon University provide to help students understand academic integrity?
Who are the instructors who offer courses in Los Angeles, California?
What is the name of the instructor leading the Lighting Production session for Love and Money?
 How does FROMAGe differ from Flamingo in terms of multimodal outputs?
What is the significance of Domestic Partner Registration mentioned in chapter 6?
 What are some proposed approaches for tokenizing text?
 Based on the conditional independence between the summary Y and acoustics X given semantic representation S, how can we write P(Y, S|X) in terms of P(Y|X) and P(S|X)?
When and where is Professor Islam's lecture for Special Topics: Processing of Materials?
 What role did suitable κorg scheme play in the study?
Where is Mowry teaching their Storage Systems: 12.0 (15746) class?
When is the class for Literature and Repertoire: Trombone being taught?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-12 in Severnini?
When and where does Production Prep: Sender: VAR Directing take place?
Who are the instructors for independent study 1-12 in Clay?
 How is the performance of pragmatic models evaluated for informativeness?
What is the purpose of GSA's continued funding for professional development and research conferences?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
 What were the performance metrics of the monaural TF-GridNet in the noisy/reverberant conditions?
What is the title of section A.3.2 in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What time does the Women's Tennis match against Concordia (Tx.) start on Wednesday, March 6?
What is the course 'Introduction to Undergraduate Research in Chemistry' about?
 What method was used to assess inter-laboratory variability in the study?
What does 'PA', 'PB', and 'PC' stand for in the context of this text?
When does M.F.A. Contextual Practice take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is teaching Production Prep: A Little Night Music at 5:00 PM on Monday?
What does 'equivalent graduate courses' mean in this context?
What did Rick Rashid do when he was locked in a laboratory?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching 'Production Prep: SOM 3: Media L'?
Where is the Graduate Student Lounge located at CMU?
What is an Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) deemed as?
What are the days and times of the week when Advanced Research in French & Francophone Language & Culture class is held?
What additional guidance does the university provide for students?
 What is the purpose of the ablation studies conducted in the text?
What is the course code for Electronic and Computer Music?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Chai?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the Composers Forum, Freshman Showcase, and Convocation courses?
What is the name of the class for learning about lighting production?
What are the duration and residency requirements for an MCDS degree according to section 3.3 of the text?
Where does the course take place?
What is the course code for Stage Direction?
What are the course names that start with 'A1'?
What is the date of the Softball game between Brandeis and Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of the Facebook account that shares posts related to Carnegie Mellon athletics?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the elective studios for violin, viola, cello, double bass, guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, and bassoon?
When is the External Relations: Arts Marketing and PR course held?
In what location will the 'Optimization Modeling and Algorithms' class be held?
 What are some of the changes that have coincided with the rise of models in NLP?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
Which sections are mentioned only once in the given text?
What are the dates and times for the Advanced Systems Neuroscience course?
What are the course codes for the courses that start with 'Modern'?
What is the purpose of providing a current resume in the application process?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in each session?
 What correlation coefficient was obtained between GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product in the MED region?
What are the three sections in A.2?
What is the main purpose of LTI Catalogue?
When and where does Elementary Chinese II take place?
What are the time and location of Database Design and Development course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can one get in touch with the university's media contacts for news and events purposes?
What are the names of the people listed after 'Younis' and their respective titles or positions?
What does the LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook say about advising?
 What are the three categories in which approaches to machine-generated text detection can be divided?
What is the location of Berntsen's literature and repertoire event?
 What is the benchmark dataset introduced by Tom Kwiatkowski et al.?
What are the names of Zhang's classes in ANS 101?
What is the course name for Tsamitis's Special Topics: Competitive Embedded System Design and Exploitation course?
What is the schedule for 'Want to be a Mother' production classes?
When were the NCAA Championships held for Women's Swimming and Diving?
Who is teaching Tap II - Rhythmic Technique/Foundational to Complex in Room 306 on Friday?
What is the course code for Instructor TBA's Introduction to Accounting?
What are the names of the two courses being offered at PCA 209 and what are their respective durations?
What are the days, times, location, and instructors for class A W3 - W 08:50PM in TBA?
 Who are some of the authors of the Bart denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-training paper?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 08:00AM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is Anatole Gershman?
 How does PAR utilize the strengths of NAR and AR methods?
What were SPICE's goals?
 What evaluation metric is used for ASR in the study?
Who handles tuition problems for MCDS program students?
Where is Modern Biology Laboratory held?
Who is the instructor for Sustainability, Energy, and Environmental Economics course?
What are the names of the courses that Principles of Microeconomics 73102 is divided into?
What are the two courses offered by iii Engineering Core B and Business Core B?
 What function is used in the parametric model for similarity, and what function is used in the kNN-LM model?
 What is the main focus of Dynamic-SUPERB in terms of speech tasks?
 What is the objective of structured pruning of the student model?
What is the title of the article?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on TR from 10:00 AM to 11:45 AM in TEP 2118?
Where is the location of Harding's Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What is the URL where students can find information about course changes?
What is the policy regarding discriminatory harassment at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who was he jointly awarded with for the ACM Turing Award in 1994?
What is the course code of the first class listed?
What is the course name for Financial Computing II?
Where is the 'They Came as Romans: Roman Civilization 360' course held?
Where is the Study Abroad program located?
 What is the dataset introduced in the paper by Fisher Yu et al.?
What is the purpose of the Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) at CMU?
What happens if a student does not meet the academic standards set by CMU?
How many units of qualifying and elective courses must MIIS-16 students take to satisfy their degree requirements?
What is the name of the class where Media is being taught?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
When does Independent Study in Research take place?
How tall is Lucas Pavlounis?
How many likes does the Carnegie Mellon University Men's Soccer page have on Facebook?
When does the online program start for technically-savvy professionals?
What is the location of DNM Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the class taught by Ms. Pazos in PCA 314 on Tuesday and Thursday at 9:30 AM?
How many undergraduates were enrolled at SCS by 1995?
 What is the maximum number of iterations allowed for the FEEDBACK-REFINE process?
What are the course codes and instructors for courses A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z?
What is the course name that starts with 'Formal Methods'?
Who teaches Machine Learning Foundations with Python?
What is required to be filled out in advance before a student can receive travel funding?
When will the orientation for incoming fall 2021 MCDS students take place?
 What dataset and value are associated with 0.1 PiCO+ in the text?
Is there a part-time education option available for MIIS students?
What is the name of the production that starts at 06:20PM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
What is Kim Kelly's title in Administration?
Who was Rick Rashid, according to Rich Draves?
How can students get involved in undergraduate research and honors thesis at the university's School of Computer Science?
What is the time and location of the Optimization and Risk Modeling for Managers class?
Who are the students listed in this text?
Where can students find information about the academic calendar?
What time does Zajdel's Introduction to Amateur Radio class start?
Who are the instructors for each course?
What time does the 'Drawing I' course start and end?
Where does the 'Arab Culture Through Dialogues, Film, and Literature' class take place?
What are the time slots for Music Reading for Production?
 What do the experiment results show about the maximum arm current stress and the maximum FB-SM voltage?
Who should F-1 or J-1 students consult for immigration regulation compliance?
How can students request needed accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for MCDS Capstone Planning Seminar?
What was the speed of ChipTest in 1987?
Where can students find a list of departmental resources?
Where did the Tartans place at Golfweek DIII Fall Invite?
What is the course name and credit hours of the 12:30PM - 02:00PM class?
 Which filters showed noticeable improvements on the text2code benchmarks?
What are the days and times for the class titled 'Business Value Through Integrative Analytics'?
 How did experiments with larger vocabularies, in the KALE only setting, compare to the original BM25 baseline?
Where is Beginning Piano for Minors class held at 1:00 PM on Fridays?
Who teaches the 'Sound Design' class?
Name a course that focuses on deep learning and starts at 8:00 AM on Monday.
When and where does Borzutzky teach at HBH 1007 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of the course being offered at HBH 1005 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the most widely used metric for evaluating translation quality in NMT systems?
What are the names of the teachers and their respective subjects in Doha?
 How many permutation analyses were performed on the experimental data?
What are the topics covered in the Environments Studio II course?
 What is the goal of the GPT-2 base and XL models released by OpenAI?
What is the overall record of the team in 2023?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Mathematics Colloquium 0.0?
What are the names of the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 1, 2, and 5?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study 84252 and Independent Study 84335?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the deadline for accepting test scores?
What are the two aspects of The Simon Initiative according to Reddy?
What are the locations for each course mentioned in the text?
How many courses are listed in this schedule?
What is the name of Shen's class at 10:00 AM?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Music Entrepreneurship and Special Topics in Music: VAR?
What is the name of the second course mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of Long-Term Accommodation for gestational parents?
When was the Women's Tennis match held on Tue, Mar/07?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on this schedule?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
 What was the proportion of men in the sample of patients?
When and where is the Additive Manufacturing Laboratory held?
What are the names of the three teachers teaching Eurhythmics I in this schedule?
Who teaches the course 'Defects in Materials (Minor Option) 6.0 A MW'?
What are the names of the instructors for 76051 Study Abroad?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
 Which Transformer model was distilled to create the MiniLM-L6 model?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on TR from 10:00 AM to 11:45 AM in TEP 2202?
What is the name of Elder's class?
Who teaches the Production Prep: SOM 3 Lighting Production class?
What is the course code for 'Music and Technology Seminar'?
What are the three instructors for MSIT Independent study 3-15?
What are the course codes for Dietrich Introductory Seminar: College & University Success Strategies offered at different times?
When does the Technical Opportunities Conference occur?
What options do students have if they need to miss their course work due to the arrival of their baby?
What are the three courses being offered at the specified time on Monday in week A?
What are the names of the professors teaching in Doha, Qatar?
What is the main focus of Graham Neubig's research within NLP technologies?
What is the name of the class taught by Zetlin-Jones?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:30 AM on Friday in PH A22?
 Are relationships between instances made explicit in the data?
What are the dates and times of all classes listed in this text?
 What is the hope regarding the CHiME-7 DASR challenge?
When and where does the Music in the Elementary School class take place?
Does the text mention any specific actions that need to be taken for accessing bookstore.web.cmu.edu?
What are the policies related to alcohol and drugs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Integration and Approximation?
In what room is Cardio Fitness/Sculpt A1 MWF 01:00PM 01:50PM held?
What are the days of the week when each course is offered?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about decision processes in American political institutions?
 What is one key difference between PinSage and LightGCN?
What are the three main categories of funding mentioned in section 6?
 How was the fatigue crack propagation behaviour of the steel studied?
What type of funding can be found in section 5.3?
How many individuals are listed under 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Bagpipe'?
 What is MCD used to measure in the text?
Where and when does the 'PhD Internship in Teaching Counterpoint' course meet?
What are the names of the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12,15 I2?
What are the days and times for Amvrosiadis, Ganger's Algorithms in the Real World class?
Who is the instructor for BXA Studio in the second semester?
Who is ALLEN NEWELL and what was his contribution to Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Basketball Skills at CUC W GYM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are considered as Graduate Students according to the Master's Degree Completion and Certification?
 In the real-world experiments, which method performed slightly better: RL or Heuristic baseline?
 What is a limitation mentioned in the introduction regarding the annotation of images at a pixel-level?
What is the relationship between 'Connect', 'Login', and 'Logout'?
When does the event start and end?
What is the name of the course that will be held in GHC 4307 from 12:30 PM to 01:50 PM?
What is the course title and credit hours of the Spatial Analysis in Infrastructure Planning course taught by Professor Kurland?
What is the name of the instructor for the How Things Work: Mechanics and Electronics class?
Who are the teachers mentioned in the text for each instrument's advanced music studies studio?
 What is REDRESS in the context of mitigating popularity bias?
How many credits does each course offer?
What are the course codes, times, locations, and instructors for Machine Learning in Production Practice classes?
At what time does Doctoral Dissertation class start and end according to the given schedule?
 How does the FEEDBACK module in the SELF-REFINE system contribute to response generation?
What are the two courses being offered by instructor Edinger in this schedule?
What are the topics covered in the Design Studies: Power class?
 What is the maximum absolute difference in BC column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval in the SUS region?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
What is the statement of assurance provided by Carnegie Mellon University according to the handbook?
How can speakers of technologically poor languages benefit from language technologies?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching Graduate Teaching Assignment 0.0 A TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What do the SUPERB and SUPERB-SG benchmarks evaluate?
 What approach does the paper propose for solving the inverse problem of phonation models?
What is the total number of units required for MCDS students to complete their graduate study?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's statement on discrimination?
What is the course name and instructor for Special Topics: Processing of Materials (course code 27306)?
What is the location of Snyder's Principles of Education class?
What is required for applicants whose native language is English and they will study on an F-1 or J-1 visa?
 What drawback is addressed by the proposed regularizer in the paper on self-training for unsupervised domain adaptation?
Which section of the handbook does the information about Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI) belong to?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
What should F-1 and J-1 students do if they are considering early completion or longer-than standard completion?
 Which two groups showed statistically significant differences in sharing a missing perspective?
What are the two time slots for Production Prep: Lear?
What are the days and times of Stamper's Special Topics in HCI Interactive Extended Reality?
What is the subject of Production Prep:Penelope?
What is the location of Curtis Institute of Music?
What kind of assistance do library liaisons, consultants, and information specialists offer?
What is the course schedule for Bug Catching: Automated Program Verification?
Who are the instructors for DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Greenhouse, Yurko LL TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA M TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Dubreil MM TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA N TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Niang NN TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA O TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Clay OO TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA P TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Caspar PP TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA Q TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Oddo QQ TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA R TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Arana RR TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA S TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Haggerty T TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Goldman U TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Thiessen V TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Ales W TBA DNM DNM Doha, Qatar Bouamor X TBA DNM DNM Doha, Qatar Vatanasakdakul Y TBA DNM DNM Doha, Qatar Aoun Z TBA TBA Doha, Qatar
What are the course codes and instructors' names of all courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 9:00 AM?
What are the locations of Movement and Dance III (57211) and The Beatles (57209) in this text?
What are Mona Diab's research areas?
Who is the instructor for Naval Laboratory (32200)?
When is Music in the Elementary School class held?
 Which institutions are the authors affiliated with in China?
 What is the name of the book?
How do they complement the learning that transpires in Carnegie Mellon’s classrooms?
 What stadium do the Philadelphia Eagles play their home games in?
What are the names of the people who teach Schepkin BB and Chiu BC respectively in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What does the text suggest using during inference to encourage the model on generating clean speech despite training on a noisy corpus?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: External Projects and Media L?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Dr. Rakach for M.S. Research in this semester?
 For which language were the achieved values considered borderline in terms of statistical significance?
What are the names of the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the overview of the dual-degree Ph.D. program?
 What models are utilized in vision experiments for GLoRA?
Where was the next event held after Kenyon Fast Chance?
Where is the class 'Human Factors 9.0' held?
What are the days and times for the course 'CFA ACH Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Trumbull 57347'?
What is guaranteed for all LTI PhD students in their first year of study?
What is the title of the first-year seminar that focuses on the causes and consequences of health disparities?
When does the event start and end?
What is the significance of having a Graduate Student Assembly at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the three Personal Fitness classes offered at CUC FITNES in Pittsburgh?
Where is the text set?
What should students do if they have been impacted by any of the issues mentioned in the text?
Who has a PhD in Language and Information Technology according to this text?
What is the course code for Elementary Italian II?
What is the location of Silicon Valley Campus of Carnegie Mellon University?
What were the results of the matches mentioned in the second to fourth texts?
What resources does the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion offer according to the text?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Hitchcock?
What are the names of the three locations where Bain has an office according to the text?
How long is expected to complete MIIS-16 students enrolled for full-time study?
 Why does CodeBERTScore compute the F3 score instead of the F1 score mentioned in BERTScore?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Arithmetic Statistics and Stochastic Calculus?
What is the location of Aylmer AB and what are its abbreviations?
Which player is from Princeton, New Jersey?
What is 'pruning' in AI programs, and how was it used by Newell, Simon and Shaw?
According to the given text, can students take elective courses outside of SCS?
What are the different categories of services provided by the company?
How is the GSA/Provost Conference Funding Program managed?
Who are the instructors for Architecture Design Studio: Poiesis Studio 2 in Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
 What loss function is used for optimizing the models in the text?
What are the requirements for teaching assistantships in order to satisfy the Teaching requirement?
 What is the main challenge addressed by the BASS algorithm?
 What theoretical guarantees have been extensively studied for FedAvg?
What does the Department of Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation aim to achieve at an elite level?
What is the URL of the web site mentioned in point 6.12?
Who is the founder and chairman of the Governing Council of the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday at 10:30 AM?
What is the title of the course being held at POS 280-2 from 04:40PM to 06:30PM on Wednesday?
What is the course name for Acharya's class?
Who teaches Production Prep for Penelope Lighting?
What are the dates and times of the two Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Analysis classes?
Who teaches the course Embedded System Development?
What is the focus of the information contained in this graduate handbook template?
Where can I find information about domestic partner registration?
 During the pollution event, how much did the daily mean PM2.5/CO values increase from the early to late stages?
Who is the Assistant Professor at the University of Pittsburgh?
In which city is Instructor TBA B's independent study located?
What is the role of GSA in Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Acoustics of Human Speech: Theory, Data, and Analysis take place?
Who received a 2023 Okawa Research Grant to continue their work on modeling human users of natural language processing systems?
Which instructor teaches 'Comparative Politics'?
 What is the indicative interval for %GCV of the sample MN titre across testing laboratories?
 What is highlighted as the benefit of global structured learning and inference in the text?
 What religion has a value of 1.00e+00 for both African and Latin American groups?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching the 'Lighting Design I' and 'Sound Design' classes?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
 How did using the learned gaze policy impact pick performance in the study?
 What is the main difference between dependency parsing and AMR?
What are the days and times for Shah's Machine Learning in Practice course?
 What is Big Idea #4 discussed in the text?
What is Eric Nyberg's research area?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text where these resources and offices are located?
What is the name of the course that teaches about 'Brooklyn Nine-Nine'?
Where does Gu, Khong, Peng teach their student-taught course?
When does Acting III take place?
What is the purpose of sharing this information on social media platforms?
What is the name of the instructor for the Independent Study in Rhetoric course that starts at 08:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course credit for each activity in the given text?
What is the purpose of this seminar?
What is the minimum grade required to count a course as satisfying a degree requirement?
What is the purpose of this hotline?
 How does the text propose to address the issue of base Jacobian inversion in gradient-based meta learning?
 How does ILL treat the precise labels?
What happens if a student does not complete their degree within the standard timeframe?
How can clients make an appointment with a consultant at Communication Support?
Can a student appeal their grade if they believe there was a violation of University policy in the grading process?
What should prospective students do if they are experiencing financial hardship and need a fee waiver for their School of Computer Science application?
Did the Deep Blue team accuse of cheating?
How can students obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
Who can get an Affiliate ID Card for Carnegie Mellon’s campus?
Who is the captain of the Tartan Men's Tennis team?
What are the names of the courses offered by the instructors in Particle Physics?
 What unique challenges related to satisfaction are experienced by UE transplant recipients in terms of hand functioning?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Introduction to Data Structures in Pittsburgh and Doha?
What is the email address for ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu?
When and where does the Conducting Practicum course take place?
What is the significance of the year 2000-2010 in relation to the text?
What is the course code of Introduction to Solid Mechanics I?
What are the policies on double-dipping mentioned in this text?
What are the timings for the course 'Geographic Information Systems'?
Who are the students for Larocca G's elective studio?
Who should be consulted when scheduling a student's paid vacation?
Where is Computing Services located?
Where is Service Design held?
 What type of profiles were set up for different users on different platforms?
What is the relationship between the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems (MIIS) degree and the School of Computer Science?
 How are images generated in the first step of the extraction methodology?
What is the minimum residency requirement for a PhD program at Carnegie Mellon?
 What does ESPER use reinforcement learning for?
What is the purpose of peer-led study groups?
 What is the main factor that contributes to the spatial pattern of solar PVPOT differences between regions according to the text?
What should graduate students do if they cannot reach an informal resolution for academic or non-academic issues?
What is the name of the society where Herbert A. Simon is a fellow?
What is the name of the course being taught by Shi B on Monday and Wednesday at 2:00-3:20 PM?
What are the names of the instructors for each instrumental study?
What is the title of the project that Schulz and Sullivan are working on?
Do I need to complete additional financial aid forms?
 In the experiments mentioned, which two standard datasets of relatively large scale were chosen?
Who teaches Russian Cinema: From the Bolshevik Revolution to Putin’s Russia?
When and where is 'Theatre for the Ear' offered?
What are the consequences if a student fails to improve their grades after academic probation?
Where and when is the course 'Privacy in the Digital Age' held?
What are the days and times of Quantum Hall Effect and Topological Insulators class?
 What is the conclusion drawn from the experiments comparing FedSEP to full EP?
What is the purpose of the Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students?
What are the two thriving interrelated research areas that have been birthed and substantially contributed to by the author's research?
What is the name of the study abroad program that Economics 73051 refers to?
Where does the Healthcare Operations class take place?
 What aspect is noted regarding the KALE sparse representation?
 What dataset splits are used in the experiments in A.8.2?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Carley in Dynamic Network Analysis?
What is the name of the class that teaches Production Personnel Management?
Who are the instructors for the Thesis Research course?
What is the name of the course being offered by Held?
What is the name of the course being offered at CYH 100A in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is Zajdel's class 'Introduction to Electrical and Computer Engineering' held?
When and where does Scenic Design Skills: 3D Model Making take place?
What is the name of the university where athlete #8 attended college before joining the team?
When will withdrawal of the degree occur in case of falsification discovery?
What kind of innovations is LTI ahead in according to the text?
Do I need to retake the TOEFL if my undergraduate or master's degree is from a U.S. institution?
 What constraints are mentioned in the text regarding the objective?
Who is teaching the Millinery II class?
What are the days and times for the courses listed in the text?
Where was the Kenyon Invitational held in November?
Who are the teachers for Exploded Ensemble?
What are the three levels of skills that students must develop according to the text?
What are the class times for Zhang's section of Data Analytics?
What is the name of the course that starts at 7:00 PM and ends at 8:20 PM?
What is the course code for Cognitive Robotics?
Is English proficiency a requirement for students studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa, and if so, why?
Who teaches class 76818, Rhetoric and the Body?
What is the name of the course for Physical Education 69004?
 Why does HESS underperform in comparison to HILL?
What does PCHE stand for?
What are undergraduate courses for HCDS?
 What is the accuracy increase percentage for the Transformer model on Rom-phon compared to the baseline?
What are the class names and their respective days for the classes that meet at WEH 5304 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course name taught by Justice Singh at A2 MW 05:00PM-06:20PM?
 Which model was adopted by OpenAI to transcribe the hypothesized audio and calculate the BLEU score?
 What is the main focus of the article on the volatile components in dried fruits and branch exudates of Schisandra chinensis?
 What is the Stack?
Who is the instructor for Instructor TBA N?
What are the names of the books in Equity & Communication: Strategies for Institutional Change class?
Where are the classes taught for the following courses: M.S. Graduate Project, Project Option Phase II and M.S. Graduate Project - AIE Enablers?
Why does the Eberly Center focus on graduate students as teaching assistants?
When and where does Early Undergraduate Research take place?
Who teaches the Budgetary Planning and Analysis class?
 What heuristic does CUTTLEFISH use to switch from full-rank training to low-rank training?
Who teaches the Big Data Science course?
What is the phone number for Language Technologies Institute?
What is the purpose of department-specific information in this handbook?
 According to the text, where is most of the power of the E2E model located?
 Where can the code for A-LOL be found?
What are the instructors' names for Molecular Biology and Undergraduate Research 1-18?
 Why is it important to evaluate different approaches to low-latency speech translation?
What is the purpose of having a separate section for Home events?
What are the course codes for Improvisational Acting II and Special Projects II?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
 What is an example of a data perturbation method used in data augmentation for E2E ASR models?
What is the statute of limitations for completing a PhD program at Carnegie Mellon?
 How much speed up do TorchScript and ONNX provide over PyTorch for batch size 1 using average FP16?
What are the two key offices mentioned for Academic & Research Support?
What does 'sub-critical' mean in this context?
What is the course code for Internship taught by Telang and Tsamitis in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the main entrance of East Campus Garage closed due to construction?
What is the purpose of late graduation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course that starts at 2:00 PM and ends at 3:50 PM on Tuesday?
What is the time duration of each meeting in this text?
What is the purpose of Javascript being required for SCS calendar?
Who are the people responsible for administering the LTI PhD degree?
Who are the people responsible for administering the LTI PhD degree?
What kind of materials does the library license or purchase for its users?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Thursday at 11:00 AM in room BH 145C?
What is the purpose of ID cards for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does DNM take place at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What character sequence did Scott E. Fahlman suggest for marking jokes?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two Statistical Analysis classes?
What event was covered in the article on Feb 23?
Which event does athlete number 5 specialize in?
When are the Production Prep classes held for Stage Management and Scenic Design?
What are the days and times of Barrois' Sophomore Review course?
What is the role of Enrollment Services at MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What time does the class 'Structural Design 1: Form and Forces' start?
 How does gated attention compare to concatenation in terms of performance?
 How were Schisandra branch exudates and dried fruits divided for the OPLS-DA analysis?
What are the names of the music entrepreneurship programs mentioned in this text?
What are the timings for the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty' held in HBH A301?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Strauss and Carbone?
When and where will 'Dietrich Leadership Development Seminar' be held?
 According to the text, what is the end goal of developing stronger NLP attacks?
What are the locations for all classes listed in the text?
What are the days and times for the 'Intermediate Studio: Experimental Hybrid Film - Video and Animation' course?
What are the names of the instructors for Elective Studio (Double Bass), Elective Studio (Guitar), and Elective Studio (Flute)?
When and where does Acting II take place on Fridays?
What is the location of De La Reza's performance?
What are some of the programs presented by OIE?
What programs does the Eberly Center offer for graduate students?
What is the name of the course taught by Burke at TBA J1 TR 10:00AM - 11:45AM and Management Presentations K1 TR 02:00PM - 03:45PM?
What are the class names, days/times, and locations for all classes in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course being offered at 12:30PM - 04:30PM on HL 106C?
In which section can you find information about Computing Services?
How many years of study are required to earn a Master's degree in Intelligent Information Systems according to this handbook?
Where and when does the F W lecture of 'Sign and Development' take place?
What are the days of the week when these courses are offered?
 At what initial crack angle was the critical angle of crack propagation found?
When is the class for 'Production Prep: Gloria: VAR Directing A' held?
How does the MIIS program ensure students are on track for their studies?
When does Habib teach his/her course on Privacy by Design Practicum?
What is the main goal of this project according to the text?
What are the course codes for the courses taught by Wolfe and Newman?
What is the name of the city where London is located?
What does The WORD refer to in this context?
What is the course code for Think Tank?
Who are the instructors for CIT Undergraduate Projects 1-8?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday at Rohrbach Hall?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesdays from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in GHC 4211?
When does Carnegie Mellon play baseball against Kenyon on Sat, Mar/23?
What are the days, times, and locations of Kohler's classes?
What are the names of the courses taught by Basma and Rao?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's Maarten Sap doing?
 What could be the reason for the growth in the percentage of non-ASCII characters in more recent years?
What is the course code for Germany Today?
What is the name of the student who taught a course on 'Avatar: The Last Airbender & The Legend of Korra'?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching Advanced Independent Study C TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the dates and times of the IDeATe: Soft Fabrication Skills course?
 How do authors like Sheng et al. (2019) analyze bias in the outputs of language models?
In which room is lecture 3 for Introduction to Philosophy held?
 What were some of the specific new HRQOL content domains developed based on stakeholder input?
What is the ethical responsibility of each student according to the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study 1-24 in this text?
What was achieved by researchers from Carnegie Mellon University and IBM with the Andrew Project?
What is the phone number for GSA?
Who is the instructor for the Introduction to Computer Systems course at Information Networking Institute (INI) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the Senior Design Studio: Products course at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name for Corporate Capstone Project (F TBA - DNM DNM)?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: External Projects Stage Management and Production Prep: External Projects Scenic Design?
Who is the assistant professor mentioned at the end of this text?
Who collaborated with Jordan and Reddy to create the Robotics Institute?
Where is Reading and Research in Computational Neuroscience held?
What time does the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: VAR Directing' start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the two courses being offered at different times and locations?
Who did #14 Carnegie Mellon play against in their final game on Sun, May/14?
What are the consequences for a student who violates MCDS's policy on academic integrity?
What is the name of the course that teaches about Special Music Project, and who are its instructors?
 When was the IEEE conference ICASSP 2021 held?
Where is Professor Iyer's office located?
What are some of the topics covered in workshops offered by the library?
What is the commitment of faculty, staff, and students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the location of lecture E taught by Ada Saad?
 What tool is used to align the final stable translation with the gold reference before calculating the BLEU score?
Who teaches the course 'Teaching Assistantship'?
 What approach is adopted for high-quality solutions in the TSP task?
 What did the analyses show contributes to the observed gains?
What is the name of the instructor for 57795 Comprehensive Review (Analysis Paper) 1.0 and 57796 Graduate Composition Project 1.0?
What are the credits and schedule for Practicum in HCI: 3-48?
What are the dates of the matches in April?
What is the purpose of The WORD in Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title of the class that starts at 4:00 PM in TEP 4219 with course code '47835'?
What time does Racquetball class start?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Student Assembly according to this text?
Where can students find more information about appealing final grades at Carnegie Mellon?
 How did the dataset generator prevent generating duplicate examples?
Is online registration mandatory for all courses?
When and where is Ojeda 57733 Choral Techniques being held?
What is the role of a graduate program in Longer-than-standard Completion?
 How is the context dropout introduced during training?
 Why may an out-of-memory error occur in PAR during inference?
What is the name of the teacher whose class takes place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What was the final score of the game between Carnegie Mellon and #1 NYU?
Who are the authors of the thesis titled 'Biomedical Engineering 42790 Practicum in Biomedical Engineering'?
Who will be working on sound design?
What is the name of the course taught by Cullen in Dangerous Ideas in Science and Society?
Who teaches the course titled 'Ethical Hacking'?
What is Cross-registration in the context of PCHE?
 What is the advantage of using prompts that return distributions close to known distributions for estimating p?
In which room and at what time does Kumar teach Computer Networks?
 Which of the baselines achieves the best performance on 2WikiMultihopQA?
What are the dates and times of the classes listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the class taught by Wojciechowski at 10:00 AM on Tuesday?
What is the name of the city where all these courses are located?
What does the shield represent in relation to Carnegie Mellon University's Scottish heritage?
What is the location of lecture 2 taught by Ada Saad?
When and where is the Professional Development for PhD students II being held?
What is the role of CMU Alert in a campus emergency?
When does the 'Carnegie Scenic' class take place?
When was the post shared on Facebook?
 What method is used to implement A-LOL and its variants?
What are the names of the courses offered in this schedule?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Seminar V?
What is GSA's role in advocating for legislative action?
 What is the focus of some mention extraction results in the text?
Who teaches the course on Probability and Computing?
Where is the office of Mona Diab located?
What is Lakshaya's program of study?
Where and when is the 'Collaborative Project in Music Entrepreneurship' class held?
 How many generations are mentioned in the study?
What is the statement of assurance at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for the course offered on Tuesday from 12:30 PM to 01:50 PM?
What is the name of the course that starts at 4:00 PM and ends at 5:45 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is the minimum grade required for PhD students according to the Minimum Course Grade Policy?
 In the text, what is the codebook size when there is almost no difference compared to using 1024 codes?
What is the course code for 'Data Analytics with Tableau'?
What is the name of the school that Megan Baker attends?
When and where are Digital Integrated Circuit Design classes held?
What are the names of the independent study courses offered at this institution?
When and where does Music History for Graduate Students II take place?
 What is the purpose of translating test sets to English in the text?
How many types of crimes are described in the annual campus security and fire safety report?
 How many images are used for training in the Flickr8kAudio dataset?
What is the purpose of making GRE scores optional for Ph.D. applications in the School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times for each of these StuCo courses?
What is the topic of Achnani's presentation?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
Who is the instructor for Introductory Course for CS Doctoral -Diversity & Inclusion in Science & Society?
What are the names of the students in Wenner 80496 Undergraduate Independent Study Mini VAR B?
When is the event that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 3:00 PM?
 What GPU is used for training each model in the text?
When and where does Engineering Molecular Cell Biology take place?
 What is the focus of the study in terms of TTS systems?
Are there any teaching requirements for students in the MCDS degree program?
What is the course name for Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Whitehead 06663?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Pedercini's classes?
 How did the aerosol extinction coefficient vary with altitude below 2 km?
What is the date and time of the Washington and Lee University event?
Are MS graduates from Carnegie Mellon University given preferential treatment when applying for CMU's PhD programs?
What are Alexander Hauptmann's research areas?
When does Kliewer teach his internship seminar?
 How does the arrangement of post-tensioned rebars affect the significance of the Hall effect?
What are the course codes and their respective instructors for Deep Reinforcement Learning & Control, Federated and Collaborative Learning, Machine Learning with Large Datasets, Convex Optimization: Theory and Applications, Practicum, Independent Study, Dissertation Research, Academic Variant?
What happens if a student fails to meet all the specified conditions in an 'N-1' letter?
Who is the instructor for Mathematical Sciences 21051 Study Abroad?
What is the standard timeframe for completing a master's program?
What are the names of the two classes that start at 2:00 PM on Wednesday?
What are the two ways to satisfy the Presentation requirement according to the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the name of the production preparation class for Media Design?
What version of TOEFL is accepted by ETS?
 What was the choice of optimizer used in the experiments described in the text?
Under what circumstances can a student withdraw their degree?
What are the days and times for Shah's Machine Learning in Practice course?
 How many low-resource languages were explored in the submission?
How many authors are listed in the text?
According to FERPA, what are the students' rights?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
What does the text mention about individual freedom according to the educational goals mentioned?
What are the class names and their respective days for the classes that meet at WEH 5304 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course taught by Boatwright, Ayoob, and Bodily in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 In the multilingual ASR task, what type of models have shown superior performance compared to the baseline model?
What are the specifics covered under the section on 'Assigning Grades'?
What is not specified in section 4.2 of LTI academic policies?
What is the name of Choi's course in this schedule?
What are the permit rates for parking areas on campus?
What is short-term accommodation for gestational parents?
Under what circumstances will final grades be changed?
What time does Repertoire and Listening for Musicians I start?
What are the course codes for Silicon Valley Residency and Fundamentals of Telecommunications Networks?
When and where will Graduate Stage Management I be held?
Why did Berliner's work on chess have a scientific approach?
What is the name of the course that starts at 03:00PM and ends at TBA in Kigali, Rwanda?
What are the systemic skills that students must develop according to the text?
What is the address of Contact Us at LTI?
 How are the textual similarities of captions calculated in the study?
How are student's privacy rights protected at this university?
 For which language does OWSM v3 outperform Whisper by a large margin?
Where is Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania located?
 What is the purpose of the proposed method TDN in the text?
What is The Student Parent Association according to the resource page maintained by the Graduate Student Assembly?
Who is the instructor for Statistical Models of the Brain?
What is the contact information of Robert Frederking, one of the program directors?
What is the requirement to satisfy the Research Speaking Requirement in Ph.D. program?
What are the names of the five sections for Introduction to Engineering and Public Policy class?
When and where does Real-Time Graphics take place?
What format(s) can you use to view the class schedules at Carnegie Mellon Home?
 What percentage of sentences triggers retrieval for good performance across tasks/datasets?
 What insight do Shapley values provide in the context of a specific prediction?
What are the dates and times of the IDeATe: Introduction to the Unity Game Engine course?
What are some departments included under the Office of the Dean of Students in Carnegie Mellon University?
 What optimizer is used for training the quantizer?
 What is the overall accuracy of pairwise clustering?
Who owns the copyright for this webpage?
 What platform was used for human evaluation?
What are the names of the courses taught by Mukherjee?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered on Friday at 6:30 PM?
When and where does Polymeric Biomaterials class take place?
Where can students find more information about student privacy rights and FERPA at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times of each department's production prep sessions?
Who are the instructors at TBA 57988 and TBA 57989 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times of the 'Data Analytics for Organizational Impacts' course?
Who teaches the Creative Nonfiction Workshop?
 What is the National Key Research and Development Program of China funding?
 How does the two-step approach in the proposed method work to improve speech outputs?
What is Alexander Rudnicky's title?
What is the name of the course offered by Rehman and Cardoso Llach?
 How does Transformer-TTS differ from Tacotron2 in terms of the self-attention mechanism?
Who teaches Exploded Ensemble at DNM Pittsburgh?
What is the website address of Language Technologies Institute (LTI) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the process for applying to a PhD program in SCS?
What are the course names in this schedule?
What is the name of the group formed by Tartan student-athletes in January 2021?
What are the days and times for Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing?
What is the name of the course taught by Salameh and Hasna? (Second answer)
In which room is the Societal Computing Pre-Thesis class held?
What is the course name and instructor for class B3 on Tuesday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
Who teaches 'Independent Study in Language and Culture-Advanced Level 3-12'?
What is the location of Computing Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is a 'thesis statement' in relation to Ph.D. dissertation?
Who is the instructor for the course 'Assessment in Music Education'?
What kind of services are available at the University Center according to the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the names of the students for Sophomore Recital 1.0 (A2)?
What are the three websites listed for students to find university policies and expectations?
 What is the proposed method to improve the blockwise beam search method for simultaneous speech translation?
What is the significance of having a separate handbook for each department at CMU?
When was Aldrich named USA Track and Field Throws Coach for 2024 Paris Olympics?
What instrument does Laduke specialize in at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
 Why is it challenging for language models to interpret figurative language across different languages?
What services does the Office of Research Integrity & Compliance provide?
Where was their first loss in the NCAA Tournament held, and who were they playing against?
What is the policy for using the lap pool at Carnegie Mellon University's swimming and diving facility?
 What was the cut off value used to exclude data in the study?
What are the names of the three instructors teaching Dalcroze Eurhythmics Workshop?
What is the name of the instructor for the A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I classes?
What is the contact information of Language Technologies Institute?
 What ethical considerations were followed in conducting the study, as per the text?
What is the course code for CEE Infrastructure Systems in Action?
 What aspect of aerosols did Xia et al. examine in the Yangtze Delta Region of China?
Where can graduate students obtain a copy of Carnegie Mellon University's annual campus security and fire safety report?
What kind of skill-building opportunities does the Student Academic Success team convene?
What is the name of the class being offered in Production Prep for Lonely Planet at 5:00 PM on Wednesday?
 What is the first step in cooking Machboos according to the recipe?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered in Language Enrichment?
What is the location of Keyboard Studies for Voice and Keyboard Studies for Composition B?
What is the name of the course taught by Ozis at PH 107E?
 In the paper on open-domain question answering, what platform was used for self-supervised pretraining and fine-tuning using multiple ODQA datasets?
Who are the people attending the eighth event?
Who are the instructors teaching each class in this schedule?
 What are some applications of meta learning mentioned in the text?
Who teaches classes B and C?
When and where does Principles of Education take place?
 What is the significance of the `Homepage` mentioned in the text?
What are the courses taught by Cox-Boyd?
 What does the GLoRA method serve as?
What areas of language and information technologies do LTI faculty and students investigate?
How can students get help if they have questions about the accommodation process at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the purpose of Track 1 in the competition?
What is the academic program of Eshani Agrawal?
 What is human feedback considered as in the text?
What was the Andrew Project launched by Carnegie Mellon University and IBM for?
Does Carnegie Mellon University accept IELTS Academic or General Training?
What sports events are mentioned in the text?
What is the main point of the author's argument regarding Shakespeare's work?
When was the event 'Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Analysis: Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Analysis A M 02:00PM 04:20PM DH 3302' held?
What are the two semesters when students can choose electives according to their interests?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
According to the menu options, what are some of the main activities that take place at this institute?
What are the two options available on the 'Connect' page?
Which courses are included in Example Course of Study #2?
What are the names of the instructors for each production in the text?
What are the locations of all courses taught by Frieze?
 Based on the given context, would Duke of York and Frederick likely link to the same article on Wikipedia?
What services do the Carnegie Mellon University Libraries offer?
What are the names of the courses offered by Instructor TBA?
What is the course code for Digital Service Innovation?
How many cities are mentioned in this text?
 What is the topic of the study by Madhok and Bhopal (1992)?
What are the instructors' names for each activity in the given text?
What are the dates and times of Loh D F's lecture?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 7:00 PM to 8:50 PM in GHC 4215?
What are the roles of Cody W, Holcomb, Shackleford, and Block in the given schedule?
What is the maximum number of units a student can take per semester without permission from the program director?
 What is the dropout rate in the training configuration?
How many students are listed as having a 9.0 grade in the Major Studio program?
What is the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation?
What are some of the things included in the LTI Orientation Canvas course?
Who are the head coaches of Men's Soccer?
 What is the average of the numbers provided?
Who are the instructors of Firos and Akin's class?
 How does FedEP improve upon FedPA in the context of federated learning?
How can graduate programs ensure that all concerns are addressed promptly?
What should a sponsored student do if they have any tuition problems?
What is the final application deadline for fall admission to the MCDS program?
Where is the Genshin Impact - Theorycrafting 101 course held?
Who is the instructor for Oboe K at Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What are the four key areas that can flourish with research, creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship?
What is the title of the study abroad course listed in the schedule?
What are some traditions associated with being part of the Kiltie Band according to the text?
 How is the first step in the two-step pipelined approach described?
 What is the purpose of xP3 (Code & English) dataset?
Where is the webpage with instructions about ordering transcripts located at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How does TASTE alleviate the cold start problem?
What is the title of the lecture by Damiani?
Who are the authors of this text?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Piano)?
 What is the focus of the study mentioned in the text?
What instrument does Branson specialize in?
What is the location where Black and White Photography II is offered?
What kind of support does The Plaidvocates offer if a student is struggling with academics or practice?
What is the name of the course taught by Carja and Schwartz at CFA 102?
What kind of information can students view on their SIO account?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
What are the names of the people who teach GA and GB in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times of Opie B1, Opie B2, and Observation 3.0 classes?
 What type of benchmarks are HumanEval and MBPP?
What is Anne Bock's title in Women's Volleyball?
What are the days and times of classes A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J?
When and where does the second session of 'Introduction to Printed Circuit Boards Fabrication' take place?
What are the courses under Breadth Courses: Human Language that can be counted as approved qualifying courses for SCS relevant to MIIS degree other than LTI?
What are the names of the people listed after 'Kuhlman' and their respective titles or positions?
Where and when does the second class on Study Abroad take place?
 What is the purpose of the two-step alignment procedure introduced for the rotation-axis alignment?
 How do valid alignments differ between the RNN-T and RNA models?
When does the 'US China Relations' class take place?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Computational Molecular Biology and Genomics course?
 What are the standard metrics used by Shen et al. (2022) in the text?
Who are the instructors at TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the course Special Topics: Models & Algorithms for Interactive Robotics?
Who teaches the course 'Humanities Scholars Senior Research Seminar'?
Which option is not a way to share content?
Why was this university policy created?
 What is the trade-off between providing richer representations of papers to similarity-computation algorithms?
What is the course code for Introduction to Community Engagement?
What are the course codes for Economics 9.0 A MW and Tepper College Honors Thesis I?
 How many stirrup conﬁguration forms were designed for the specimens?
What is the name and location of Resende's class?
Where can one find information about Parking and Transportation services in this text?
Why do MLT students not normally serve as Teaching Assistants (TAs) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the production for each session in the given schedule?
Where can one find more information about these services and their locations?
Who can elect benefits for their domestic partners at Carnegie Mellon University?
Which courses are taught by Professor Warren and have a duration of more than 6 hours?
What happens at the end of the semester when Master's students have completed all their degree requirements?
How many different types of studies are mentioned in this text under the subject area 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)'?
 What was the tension control stress of prestressed tendons?
When and where does Bio-nanotechnology: Principles and Applications take place?
What happens if a student's cumulative QPA drops below 2.6?
What are the names of the authors who conducted a graduate reading and research program in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How many authors are mentioned before Instructor Kelly?
What is the location of the first class on the schedule?
What is the purpose of the Appeals of Course Level Action section in The Word and the Office of Community Standards & Integrity web page?
What are the days and times of the Carnival Gateway Project Management course?
Who is the instructor for the 'Telling Stories with Data' session?
What is the name of the course that focuses on healthcare communications?
When is the BXA Studio (2nd semester) course held at 9.0 AA?
 What is the abbreviation CR stands for in relation to treatment response?
 What was the initial crack length prefabricated on the specimens in the study?
 What is the key insight behind UNSSOR?
 What is the loss function used during training in the experiments?
When is the Costume Production class held in this schedule?
 What are the main components aligned automatically during the data acquisition process in the presented approach?
What services does Health Services provide?
Where can I find information about all mentioned library locations and hours?
What is the hometown and high school of David Zoota?
Where and when does the 'Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Coping Mechanisms 3.0 W1 T 06:00PM 07:15PM' course take place?
 How is the fluency of generated captions scored?
 What is the total effectiveness evaluation time for the DeBERTA-v3-435M model mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of Early Completion?
What is the location of this text?
How many peer-reviewed publications has Professor Rosé's group published?
What is the course title for the lecture held on Friday at 04:00PM-05:20PM?
What is the course code for MITS Seminar B?
What is the Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation (MSAII) program?
Where does the Beginning Swimming class take place?
 How many seeds were used for training the rankers according to the text?
 What are the methods used in the external quality assessment feasibility study?
What is the name of the course taught by Offner?
Who wrote this text?
Who has a meeting at 7:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in room HH B131?
 In the ProsocialDialog dataset, what is the highest value of Cohesiveness for GPT-NeoX in non-contextual rewrite type?
What are the days and times when Bergbreiter teaches Computational Analysis of Transport Phenomena?
Where is the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation located?
Who is the Band Director at Andrew University?
What are drop/add/withdraw procedures discussed in section 5.1.9?
What is the significance of Tartans receiving a bid to NCAA Championships?
 In the Acronym Generation task, how does the performance change without actionable feedback?
What is the location of the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
On what date and time did the Men's Tennis team play against Mary Washington?
What did Hans Berliner achieve in his career?
What are the days and times of Mr. Shackleford's class, 'Scenic Design: Boot Camp', in MEL M206?
In which subject did Johnston score 9.0?
What are the names of the courses offered on Tuesday at El Zanfaly Hall?
What is the name of the course that these instructors teach?
What is the deadline for submitting applications?
What is the course title of the class held by Touretzky at NSH 3206?
 What is the multi-tab functionality designed to achieve in WebArena?
What is the maximum distance that SafeWalk will escort to?
What happens if a student's defense date slips to the next semester?
When does the class 'Designing and' start and end?
What are the days and times of Fox's Special Topics in HCI Sustainable Design: Materials, Artifacts and Computational Tools?
Which player's hometown/high school is Wheaton, Ill. / Benet Academy?
What are the days and times of the lighting production class for 'Ottone in Villa'?
Who are the authors of this text?
In which room does Rosselot-Merritt teach on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What are the days and times for Lecture X of Across the Universe from Intelligent Agents to Users?
When and where does the course 'Logic Design and Verification' take place?
What is the course code for Foundations of Drama I?
How can graduate students safeguard educational equity at CMU?
 How does TPMS differ from ELMo, Specter, Specter+MFR, and ACL in terms of complexity and performance?
Who organized 'A Tribute To Herbert Simon'?
What is the name of the person who teaches Scenic Design in Production Prep: Love and Money?
What is the name of the Portuguese platform that secured funding?
What was the date and time of the men's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and UAA Championship?
 What did the authors observe regarding overfitting for both the 100M and 200M versions of MQTTS?
What is the process for students supported by sponsored research, fellowships or scholarships during official university holidays?
 What distinguishes the experience of regaining sensory capabilities in limb transplant from other clinical groups?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 8:15 PM to 9:30 PM, taught by Markovitz?
What is the location of Chiu AC?
What time does the class with Instructor TBA start on Wednesdays?
What are the course codes of courses held at CMU REMOTE?
Where do the SI program provide regularly scheduled review sessions?
How can one get in touch with the university's media contacts for news and events purposes?
When does the J class meet?
When does Internet Services take place?
What is the name of the university that has a track & field program according to this Facebook page?
What is the name of Vincent Naik's lecture on Developmental Biology?
What is the course code for Introduction to Experimental Chemistry II?
What does the LTI do when a student has completed graduate courses at another institution?
What are the days and times of the week when Making Products Count: Data Science for Product Managers is offered?
What is the Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can mailboxes, printers, and other departmental resources be found in the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the date of the Men's Tennis match between Emory and Denison?
 What is highlighted as a potential harm to workers in the text?
What is the course code and instructor for the course offered by Wahby at HOA 160?
What is the topic of section 6.13 in chapter 6?
What is the location of the SafeWalk dispatch area?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Wednesdays at 8:00 AM - 8:50 AM in CMB 1199, Doha, Qatar?
 How is the text sequence of user-item interaction history split in TASTE?
Who is teaching Graduate Design Independent Study?
When did Megan Matsko's perspective on the game of basketball evolve, according to the article?
What should students do if they want to take advantage of this opportunity?
Where can a student find more information about the Policy Against Retaliation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the courses taught by Boevers on Saturday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What is the title of the lecture that takes place on Monday and Wednesday from 12:00 PM to 12:50 PM?
 How can model capacity be increased without affecting latency?
Where is Acting II class held at 10:50 AM on Tuesdays?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
Who is the Executive Assistant to the AVP and Director of Athletics?
 What is the parameter (M ) for the PUFFERFISH model with VGG-19 Params.?
 How many evaluation tracks are set up in AV-SUPERB according to the text?
 What does the MLP module host a substantially higher number of parameters compared to?
What is the course name for the study abroad program offered at TBA with Instructor TBA?
What is the course code for 14735 Secure Coding?
Where is the location of Dietrich Interdisciplinary Study Abroad?
When was the last revision made to this handbook?
 What region is compared for dust concentration in addition to the BOD region?
What are the dates in September?
 How does the context dropout method ensure robustness in E2E-ST?
What are the names of all the people mentioned in this text?
 Why did GIDroid fail to find any improvements on the benchmark set with known improvements according to the text?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Tuesday, Thursday at 1:00 PM in room WEH 7316?
What are the names of the instruments listed in this text?
Name two courses that start at 04:00 PM on Tuesdays.
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
What is the vision of Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the dates and time for the Integrated Innovation Institute-Seminar & Workshop Series?
What are the days and times of the week that the Computational Biology Internship: 3.0 class meets?
What is the difference between transfer credit and course exemption according to the text?
 What does the training process involve in the scheme of freezing the bottleneck layer and token embedding layer?
What is the credit hour and meeting time for each class in this schedule?
 When did the Justice Department appeal a decision to the Supreme Court?
How many fans can fit in Wiegand Gymnasium?
What happens if a student's request for an amendment is not resolved?
What is the main topic of the text?
 What type of badges could authors earn at NAACL 2022 for their accepted submissions?
 What is the purpose of MMHAL-BENCH?
How long did Reddy work on speech understanding at CMU?
What is the significance of Chinook, according to Schaeffer?
 How long did it take on average for an annotator to label a LiDAR scan in downtown areas with complex scenery?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What should students do if they want to take advantage of the cross-registration opportunity?
What is the purpose of the appeal process in academic integrity violations?
Where is Indaco 73103 Principles of Macroeconomics held?
 What is the purpose of the time reversal technique mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes for the courses offered by Bain at NSH 1305?
Who are the instructors for this dissertation?
Where is the location of University Health Services according to the text?
Can students transfer out of the MIIS degree program?
 What role does the text suggest Theory of Mind (ToM) plays in simulated language acquisition?
What is the requirement for federal financial aid eligibility?
 What is unsupervised domain adaptation and why is it important?
What is the name of the program that offers religious and spiritual life initiatives at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course code for Inorganic Chemistry Lec TR 09:30AM 10:50AM?
What is the LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook according to university policy?
In what room does 'Gilchrist' teach their class?
What are the course codes for all courses except Introduction to Parallel Computing and Scientific Computation?
What is the class name for 57185?
When is the third class mentioned in the text held?
When did the championships take place?
What is the name of the instructor teaching WR 05:00PM - 06:20PM on Wednesdays?
What are the class times for Designing Human Centered Software A and B?
What courses are taught by Dunn and Wormsley?
What are the two courses being offered by Musuraca and Eslami?
In what room and at what time does the Network Analysis class take place?
What is the name of the course taught by Arons on Tuesdays from 2:00 PM to 4:50 PM?
According to the text, what is the purpose of the 'Partnership' section on this page?
What is the name of the course for Production Prep: A Doll’s House?
Where and when does Natural Language Processing class take place?
What are the names of the instructors who have DNM as their degree?
Who are the last two instructors listed in this text?
 Why are warnings from Android linters often considered false-positives?
What are the timings for the course 'Network and Internet Security'?
What is the requirement for teaching proficiency in Ph.D. program?
 Why is data alignment important in the context of ORCA?
What instrument does Kim specialize in?
What are the class timings for Digital Marketing and Social Media Strategy?
 According to Duplissy et al. (2011), what happens to the uncertainty in the estimation of κorg?
What is the significance of this pilot project according to CMU President Jared L. Cohon?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two Business Analytics courses?
What are the names of the courses being offered on Friday?
 How many human-authored interactive 3D scenes are used in the AI Habitat simulator in the simulation component of the benchmark?
 What type of modeling models did the work in the text rely on for incorporating textual context?
What is the purpose of University Libraries at CMU?
 What is the significance of combining convolution and self-attention operations in the Conformer and E-Branchformer models?
What is the role of students in advancing knowledge at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code and title of the AutoCAD class that starts at a time to be determined?
What can students do if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated?
 At what position in the text can you find the value 11.5 for 5-shot?
What does FERPA stand for and what rights do students have under this law?
Who teaches the Independent Study course?
What are the course codes for Silverman and McGovern's courses?
What is the name of the course that takes place in room PTC 2301 on Friday?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Film & Media Studies?
What is the course code for Differential and Integral Calculus?
What are the names and meeting times for classes in Kidder A2?
 What is the title of the article by Kubiak, C. A., Etra, J. W., Brandacher, G., Kemp, S. W. P., Kung, T. A., Lee, W. P. A., et al. that focuses on prosthetic rehabilitation following upper limb loss?
Where and when does Acting for Management take place?
 What is the main goal of refactoring approaches in the context of Android app development?
What is the name of the undergraduate internship in Civil and Environmental Engineering that starts on Monday at TBA in room DNM DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What types of professional development seminars and workshops are offered by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
What are the credit hours of Baab's Live Music: Touring and Revenue Streams class?
What does REDDY think CMU should focus on to transform the world?
What are MS students expected to provide in order to access university resources?
When and where does Shaw teach History of World Architecture, I?
 Which organizations supported the authors of the text?
Where is The HUB Student Services Center located?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
 According to the text, why is a single codebook (N = 1) not sufficient for generating high-quality and natural speech?
Is it possible to pursue the degree as a part-time student at MCDS?
What is Building Virtual Worlds about?
What are the dates and times of Six Sigma Tools and Techniques course?
What is the purpose of the consultation services offered by the Office of Disability Resources?
 How is the final prompt constructed in in-context learning?
What is the name of the second music studies studio mentioned in this text?
 What is the prognostic importance of the albumin to globulin ratio in metastatic gastric cancer patients?
Why is it necessary for MS students to have a CS user ID to use the department printers?
What is the title of the course taught by Ferreira in 1985?
 What is the significance of DACS and CAG baselines in evaluating the approach?
 What can improve the methods discussed further according to the text?
Where was the David Hemery Valentine Invitational held?
What kind of housing information can students find according to section 6.12 in chapter 6?
What is the course code for 'Acting For Directors II'?
When and where does the Advanced Organic Chemistry class meet?
What are the class timings for Six Sigma Tools and Techniques?
What is the title of the thesis research course that takes place on Tuesdays from 4:00 PM to 9:00 PM in room DNM DNM?
What change did computer chess bring about according to Murray Campbell?
 How are the audio sequence lengths related to the behavior transition of WavLM in Figure 13?
How many courses are listed in this text?
What are the course codes for Renaissance Counterpoint, Harp Pedagogy, Beginning Piano for Children II, and Collaborative Project in Music E?
When and where does Production Preparation Lighting Production take place?
What happens if a student does not receive credit for prior coursework completed at CMU or elsewhere?
Who teaches Shakespeare: Tragedies & Histories (English 76245)?
What was the name of the chess-playing computer developed by Campbell and his team?
 What does the TDT model learn the alignment between?
 What was measured using a scanning mobility CCN analyzer during wintertime in Beijing?
What is Sylvania Erol's opinion on the role of education in promoting diversity in mathematics?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Dr. He in this semester?
 What did the paper introduce in terms of using LLMs for reasoning about robot plans in unseen environments?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Quantum Computation: 9.0?
What is the location of Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Monday at PCA?
When and where is the 'Manufacturing Futures' course offered?
Who is eligible to receive funding from the Student Emergency Support?
What are the days and times of the 'History of Modern Architecture' class offered by Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is the location of Ferla's music studies studio?
Who is the featured athlete in this text?
 What technique is mentioned in the text that involves training an initial translation model with synthetic data generated via back-translation (BT) and then fine-tuning it with gold data?
Name three courses taught by Professor Matthews at Carnegie Mellon University.
What is required for an MLT student's Independent Study to satisfy coursework requirements?
What is the name of the course taught by Wang in the given text?
How does the collaboration process work in Microsoft Research according to Draves?
How many students are mentioned in this text?
What is the name of the teaching internship being offered in this text?
Who is the Research Professor Emeritus listed here?
What does 'typically' mean in the context of course requirements at MIIS?
Who teaches the Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing course?
What is the consequence for international students who drop a course that is only offered once per year?
Who should students contact for program-related queries according to section 1.2?
Who are the instructors mentioned in this text?
Who teaches Keyboard Studies (Music Ed) 3.0 and Yoga for Musicians 3.0?
What are the days and times when course 11623 is offered?
Who instructs Design Your Life 51105?
Where and when is the class 'Art Writer: Writing as Object, Criticism, and Experiment' held?
 What is the primary role of LLM Evaluator in guiding the agent?
How do campers register for camps and clinics at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is one limitation of early model checkers?
What is one way Carnegie Mellon University serves society with integrity?
What are the degree requirements mentioned in the text?
 What is the purpose of the two-step flowchart mentioned in the text?
 What are some examples of textual tasks for which adversarial examples have been studied?
What are the names of the courses offered by ooqi 70507?
What time does the class 'Eurhythmics II B' start?
 What does the text indicate about the precision of error spans predicted by UNICORN compared to the ground truth?
Where and when does the Grand Challenge Seminar 'Realizing Human Rights' take place?
 What type of system outperforms its end-to-end counterpart on scientific talk translation?
What technology was used by Alex Waibel during his dive to the Titanic?
When and where is Real-Time Computer Graphics offered?
What is the duration for Graduate Reading and Research 12-48?
When and where does Puccini's Operas: Politics of Representation take place?
What event was covered in the article on Feb 23?
What is the name of Anderson's research communication course?
What is the course code for Vector Calculus for Computer Scientists taught by Chen?
What is the name of the sport that these athletes participate in?
Why will such courses not be considered for academic actions, honors or QPA calculations?
Where is Methods for Statistics & Data Science 36200 Reasoning with Data taught?
Where does Rousseau's Independent Study take place?
What is the course code for Instrumental/Choral Conducting?
What is the purpose of this text?
What is the policy regarding transferring out of the MCDS program?
 What dataset was used for experiments on an SLU task?
What are Daphne Ippolito's research areas?
 What does including the proposed KD-DLGAN into DA achieve, as shown in Row 3 of Table 1?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Data Analysis III?
What is the course code for Analysis and Modeling of Transport Phenomena?
 According to Khalid et al (2015), what are the most complained about non-functional properties of Android apps?
Where did the Carnegie Mellon Invitational take place?
What high school did Chris Lee attend?
 What are some of the areas covered in the shared tasks?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 07:00PM on Wednesday?
What can we infer about the author's hometown based on this text?
What is the role of a program director in relation to deferral requests for students enrolled in the MIIS program?
Who is the instructor of the Lighting Production class?
 What is the purpose of high-quality instruction tuning data in aligning Large Language Models (LLMs)?
When is the first rehearsal?
What is the purpose of designating an emergency contact address?
What is the course name and instructor for 36719?
Who are required to apply for CPT?
What is the purpose of providing a shared working space for MS students in the Language Technologies Institute?
Who founded the Robotics Institute at CMU?
Who teaches Integrated Innovation for Large-Scale Problems R2?
When and where does Neuromorphic Computer Architecture & Processor Design lecture take place?
What are the locations for each course mentioned in the text?
What are the official publications for the Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores (PDEEC)?
 What does it indicate when the curves are closer to the reference line in the context of factorizing layers?
What are the names of the classes that start with 'Masters Project'?
What is the course code for Rhetorical Grammar?
Who is Teruko Mitamura at Carnegie Mellon University?
What kind of services does Health Services offer to students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name and instructor's name for Life in the Digital Factory: Spatial Storytelling about Computational Landscapes?
In which location and at what time does McCannell's Advanced Placement 1-72 A TBA DNM DNM take place?
 What did the authors hypothesize regarding the 21st layer of the WavLM large?
What is the name of the course that starts at 08:00 AM on Friday in room CFA 102?
What time does the Probability course start?
What are the names of the instructors for Outdoor Soccer A4?
Who is the instructor of 'Undergraduate Research Shadowing in Chemistry A3 TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Peteanu'?
What is the name of the class held on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
 In which journal was the paper by Liang et al. published?
Who collaborated with Wu on Chamber Music: String Quartet 3.0 A?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches courses like 'Independent Study in Supervised Teaching', 'Diverse Populations in Inclusive Settings', and 'Special Topics: Advanced Skills in English Diction'?
Why was it important to thoroughly analyze the reliability of the IEEE standard using symbolic model checkers?
Who teaches the class titled 'Art and Machine Learning'?
What are the class timings for Kiln 1: Fusing and Casting?
Where are both courses held?
 How does the Specter+MFR algorithm enhance the Specter algorithm?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
 What is the purpose of the modiﬁed Euclidean distance measure used in the study?
 What is the hypothesis space Hi in the problem context?
What are the days and times of the courses listed in the text?
 Who funded the creation of the dataset?
Where does Kissmeyer-Nielsen teach Entrepreneurial Plan Presentation 4.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who did Dr. Newell meet at Carnegie Institute of Technology (CIT)?
Who is the Lori Levin Research Professor?
What is the course code for Architectural Lighting Design?
Where are the projects located?
What is the title of the second course mentioned in the text?
How many units are required to pass an undergraduate course taken as pass/fail?
What are the names of the courses offered under Production Management (B)?
What department(s) does Mona Diab belong to?
Will I be considered for financial support if I am admitted into a master's program?
Who are the instructors for the C, D, E, F courses?
Where can students find university-wide academic policy information and resources?
What are the dates for the fourth meet in the schedule?
 What did the authors hypothesize regarding correctly identifying the language in transcription modeling?
What is the name of the instructor for the course 'Directing A'?
Who teaches the Carnegie Scenic course?
What makes Pittsburgh a green city?
What does the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education offer to graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can students find information about the Ethics Reporting Hotline?
What was Traub's total budget for the department?
What are the days and times of classes 67240 Mobile Web Design & Development, 67265 Design Fundamentals: Shaping Interactions and Experiences, and 67309 Special Topics: Information Assurance and Security?
According to the text, what can break a simple CAPTCHA?
What is the location of Instructor TBA in the text?
What are the course credits for each course listed in the schedule?
What instrument does Park play at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
Where does the Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems class take place?
What are some of the research activities that take place at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the two graduate recitals for viola in this text?
What is the purpose of the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook mentioned in the text?
Where is the study abroad program located in this text?
How many students can enroll in each course?
Where can students find a complete breakdown of the MSAII program and its policies?
What are the class timings for Trade & Investment Strategy?
What are the days and times for Introduction to Japanese Language and Culture 9.0 A TR 08:00AM 09:20AM WEH 5310 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What GPU was used for the CIFAR-10 experiments?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Tuesday, Thursday at 12:00 PM in room DH 2122?
What are the course codes for Adaptation for Stage and Screen and Creative and Dramatic Writing for Engineers?
Who are the instructors at EA and EC classes?
What is the location of Zhang W's class?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
What is the purpose of the elective courses in the Language Technologies Concentration?
How and when will I be notified if I am admitted?
What is the course 'Software Engineering Independent Study A' taught by?
What are the course codes for Networking and the Internet and Database Systems?
What does LTI stand for?
How many offices are mentioned in this text as providing assistance to graduate students at CMU?
What are the days and times of the week when Engineering Privacy in Software is offered?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesdays from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM in WEH 5403?
What is the course name of 'Masters Report'?
What is Anatole Gershman's research focus?
How many unique neighborhoods does Pittsburgh have?
 How is the process of speech summarization described in the text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Curtis and Schulz?
What are the days of the courses with codes 03740, 03755, and 03766 in the text?
 What was the best improving change in the Frozen Bubble application?
 What type of processor was used for the execution, and how many cores did it have?
Who is the instructor for Elective Studio (Flute)?
What are the names of the instructors for Counterpoint in Theory and Application?
What are the names of the design areas for 'Ottone in Villa'?
 What is the difference between shallow fusion and deep fusion approaches?
 What is the purpose of reporting Matthews Correlation Coefficient (MCC)?
What is the course name of 'Materials Project I'?
 What is used to compute BLEU score with the reference text for translation quality evaluation?
When and where does Music History for Graduate Students take place?
 What are the drawbacks of exact-match systems in terms of matching signals?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Television'?
How many programs can I apply for in my PhD application at SCS?
Who is the instructor of the course that starts at 6:30 PM on Tuesday and ends at 9:20 PM in room HBH 1007?
What is Leach teaching at 11:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
What is the location of each student's major studio lesson?
When were video cameras installed on each court of the tennis courts?
 What impact does the high MISS and SPKERR rate have on the ASD+ASR system?
 How many languages are native to the American continent?
When and where does Aylmer's Graduate Recital take place?
How many units per semester must a student be registered for to be considered a part-time student?
Who should students contact to register for Maternity Accommodations?
What time does Civil Systems Investment Planning and Pricing start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times of each class listed in the text?
What is the date of the Men's Tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Johns Hopkins?
Who are the instructors for each production preparation class?
What is the contact information for the Computing Services Help Center?
What are the contact details of the Language Technologies Institute?
Who teaches Designing w/CARE:Co-Creating Solutions for Complex Care Coordination in Oncology on Tuesday from 02:00 PM to 03:50 PM in room MM 203?
Once I begin a master's program in SCS, is it possible to change to another program?
Who teaches 'Matrices and Linear Transformations' on Tuesday, Thursday from 8:00 AM to 8:50 AM in the schedule?
What is the contact information for getting involved with GSA?
What are the two types of breaks mentioned in this section?
What percentage of graduate students at Carnegie Mellon are international students?
What are the names of the instructors for both classes?
 What relationship is observed between loss and (cid:96)2 distance in the text?
What is the office location of Eric Nyberg?
What is the name of the institution where the student can take courses like 'Independent Study in Music Entrepreneurship' and 'Special Topics in Music: Acting'?
Why is this timing designed for students interested in extending their time at CMU?
 What are the implications of discovering the decoding strategy used for generating text?
When was the question-answering computer system developed by CMU?
Where is Applications of Operations Research taught by Li held?
What is the location of Srinualnad G's class in POS 151?
Where is the Academic Calendar located?
What is the location of Practicum in Information Systems?
What is the instructor's name for each of the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the purpose of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973?
 What is the main purpose of the proposed method mentioned in the text?
Who teaches the M.S. Graduate Project classes in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Kigali, Rwanda?
How does acknowledging the creativity of others contribute to an academic community?
What is the course code for Neural Computation?
When and where is Physics II for Engineering and Physics Students held?
 What type of study did Pace et al. conduct?
In which page number of the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook can you find information about accommodations for gestational parents?
 What is shown in Figure 11 of the text?
When does Leben teach Medical Ethics?
What is the name of the course taught by Jia at what time on Monday and Wednesday?
What are the days, times, and location for the course 'Introduction to Materials Characterization 6.0 Lec T'?
How do students indicate their advisor preferences during the Marriage Process?
 What do the results suggest about including a wider variety of languages in multilingual TTS training?
What is the length of the main pool at Carnegie Mellon University's swimming and diving facility?
What is the name of the course offered by Information Networking Institute that has a duration of 6-42 hours?
Where is the location of the course 'Telecommunications Management'?
 What are some conversational strategies that help build rapport in peer-tutoring interactions?
 How does GlobalBench differ from prior multilingual benchmarks?
 What inference strategy is compared in Figure 4?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Thursday at 2:00 PM?
 According to Table 3, which type of Aphasia detectors have the best sentence-level detection accuracy?
What are the days and times of Schneider's Bioseparations and Bioprocess Analytical Technologies class?
What are the names of the two IDeATe courses listed in the text?
 What task can VoxtLM perform according to the text?
What are the names of the courses that offer studies in English?
What is the name of the school where Gogolak teaches?
What are the different time slots offered for Introduction to Hot Glass I?
What are the contact details of Mona Diab, one of the people responsible for administering the LTI Ph.D. degree?
What is the name of the center that offers assistance for individuals with disabilities?
What is the time of the class held in room MM215 on Tuesday?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product in the Northeast India region?
What is the course code and title of Production Practicum?
 What are the different encoders used in the WavLM model?
What is the name of the course that starts at 05:00PM on Wednesdays?
What is the academic program represented by Fatima Al-Raisi?
 What components are described in Subsections 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3 of the method proposed?
 How does the model with Chain-of-Skills inference compare to retrieval-only inference on NQ, EntityQuestions, and SQuAD?
What is the name of the magazine published by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science for news and events updates?
What type of file format is used to create this calendar feed?
 What are the simplifying assumptions made by RNA to ensure tractable training?
Where will the Directors’ Generator class be held?
 How many languages does WavLabLM extend its joint prediction and denoising to?
How many units are equivalent to a capstone project executed by MIIS students?
What is directed research in the MLT program?
What is the name of the council mentioned in section 6.5?
When is the class for Literature and Repertoire: Cello being taught?
What are the days and times of Murshid's other class?
 What was the approach used by the first US2TT system to map speech into written words?
What are the course levels for each course listed in the schedule?
What are the locations of Koerner's Engineering Statistics and Quality Control class?
 What loss function is used to train the linear mapping in the GILL model?
Where can mailboxes and office supplies be found in LTI?
What are the course codes for 'Training in Philosophy' and 'Philosophy of Social Science'?
What is the name of the course that teaches Quantitative Cell and Molecular Biology Laboratory?
What are the dates and times for Seminar IV: Capstone Project Research?
What is the name of the course being offered by Likhachev?
What is the purpose of the Admissions and Scholarships section?
What are the course codes for the courses that start with 'Undergraduate Research'?
Where is the search form located on this website?
How many years does it take approximately to obtain a Ph.D. from Language Technologies Institute?
 What oscillation model simplification is achieved by the body-cover assumption in vocal folds?
What are the course codes for Score Reading for Composition Majors and Conducting Minors and Production: Crew?
Who are the instructors of Movement and Dance IV class?
Does Carnegie Mellon University offer housing to graduate students?
What is the course code for Japanese Film and Literature: The Art of Storytelling?
Which section is mentioned twice in A.2?
Who teaches the second independent study project?
Who are the authors of the text?
What are the days and times of the courses taught by students in this list?
What are the names of the students who taught courses in this schedule?
What is the course code and title of the Structure of Chinese class offered at 12:30PM in room PH A20?
What is the title of DeSantis' first class?
 What are the two tracks of the MISP2022 challenge mentioned in the text?
What does 'disclosure' mean in relation to students' education records?
What is the location of Risch's classes?
What types of parking are available on CMU's campus?
When and where is Engineering Artificial Intelligence Capstone being held?
 How many utterances were selected for human evaluation?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Chamber Music)?
 What do the results in Figure 5 suggest about transformer layers?
What is Dr. Reddy's role in relation to Indian language processing?
 What is the most frequent type of offensiveness found in the COBRACORPUS?
What is the name of the production being prepared for Video & Media Design L?
What is the name of the person who teaches Electrical & Computer Engineering course?
Who teaches 'Chamber Music: Brass' course?
 In which task did SELF-REFINE show the highest gains compared to the base models?
 What does LLaVA hallucinate in Table 16?
Who is listed first in the text?
When is Programming Language Semantics held, where is it located, and who teaches it?
What is the course name for Kumar's class that meets from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM on Tuesday and Thursday in room DNM B23 211?
Where are the courses held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course taught by Das H?
 What future updates may include for ESPnet-ST-v2?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes that start between 7 PM to 10 PM?
Who are the main users of this website according to the navigation menu?
What are the dates and times for Production Management class in Pittsburgh?
What are the locations, times and subjects of O'Dorney's classes?
When is the Graduate Seminar class held?
 What is the CTC weight (α) set to during joint training?
When is Cervesato's lecture on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
What is the name of the city where this school is located?
What is the role of Instructor in Production Prep: Dance/Light?
Where does the 'Nation, Culture, and Society in South Asian Cinema' class take place?
What is the course name for the class that starts at 08:15 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room TBA?
What happened in 1979 at the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant?
What position does Enzo DeFranco play?
 What method is proposed for encoding in the dialogue discourse parsing?
Who shared a post about Carnegie Mellon Football on December 16, 2023?
 What are the two approaches proposed by the authors for integrating HuBERT features with different resolutions?
What is the course name for TR 12:30PM - 01:50PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How is the approach of attending to top-k hidden states from the kNN index different from standard cross-attention?
 How are CD8+TILs in the high CTL group different from those in the low CTL group?
 How many epochs are used for training the long short term memory (LSTM)?
Who are the three people listed as B for Elective Studio (Composition), Elective Studio (Bagpipes), and Elective Studio (Jazz)?
 What is observed about the stress state of the crack tip at the end of crack propagation in the corrosion pit?
Where can students find information about resources for their spouses, domestic partners, and families?
Who are the head coaches of Men's Track & Field?
What does 'Please tell us what you think' invite users to do on this webpage?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching at WEH 4708 in this schedule?
How many courses are there in total?
According to section 6.1 of the text, what is The HUB Student Services Center?
Who are the instructors for IDeATe: Learning in Museums and Persuasive Design classes?
 Give examples of frameworks that follow the Eager Execution design paradigm.
Where and when does Study Abroad take place?
 How many parameters does the GPT-3 variant contain?
Who are the instructors for the 05:00PM - 06:50PM class?
What is the course code for Graduate Reading and Research in Computer Science?
What are the course codes for Stagecraft and Composition for Theatrical Sound Design 1?
Where is the location of 'EPP Projects II' course?
What services does CMU offer for copying, printing, and mailing needs?
What is the name of the course that teaches VAR Directing?
What is the name of the city where Knox's Advanced Music Studies Studio is located?
 According to the text, what is one reason for assigning wiki_ct as zero in certain cases?
What is the Escort Service offered by Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors at this school, according to their positions?
What is the location of Instructor TBA who teaches Elective Studio (Percussion)?
What are the course codes and instructors of all courses listed in this text?
What are the course names, instructors, and credit hours for the classes held on Tuesday, Thursday at 11:00 AM?
 What is the aim of combating discriminatory language mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the event that took place at Starmount Forest Country Club in Greensboro, North Carolina?
What is the name of the course taught by Gauntner that introduces students to Springboard Diving?
What is the purpose of a dissertation proposal in the context of Ph.D. studies?
Where was the Montgomery Country Club Women's Intercollegiate held?
What is the duration of Collaborative Piano VI course?
What is the contact information of Jamie Callan, one of the program directors?
What are the three sub-topics under section 7.3 of this handbook?
What time did the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Salisbury start on Sat, Mar/16?
Which sections cover policies and procedures for graduate students at CMU?
What is the name of the course taught by Rajkumar at location BH 237B?
What should students do if they are considering moving from an undergraduate to a graduate student classification?
What resources are mentioned under Additional University Resources section 7?
What are the days and times when Mcgowan is teaching Interdisciplinary Independent Study at OFF CAMPUS Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered in MM 119 at CFA KRESGE on Wednesday?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the location of the 'Intermediate Studio: Interactive Objects' course?
What activities can be found in Pittsburgh?
What is the course code and title of the French & Francophone Cultures class offered at 09:30AM in room WEH 8427?
What was the name of the experiment that lasted two years to respond to faculty concerns about change?
What is the course title and instructor for 'Econometrics I'?
 How are tokens updated using the AR process in the PAR architecture?
What is the hometown and high school of Matthew Yu?
 What is the objective of learning the uncertainty estimator 𝐺𝐿?
 What is the shape of the output after choosing k for the embedder?
Where is Intermediate Studio: Screenprint held and who teaches it?
In which room is lecture 2 for Introduction to Political Philosophy held?
What is the name of the second course mentioned in the text?
What is the time for Production Prep: Lorca Scenic Design E?
Who provides consultation and support for questions and issues of Academic Integrity at the university?
What are the names of the instructors for Internship 3-18 A?
When and where does Arabic for Global Exchange take place?
Where and when does Mukherjee teach Undergraduate Projects VAR A?
What are the requirements for all applications to the School of Computer Science?
What is the Carnegie Plan according to Shaw?
What is the name of the course being taught by Shi A on Monday and Wednesday at 2:00-3:20 PM?
 How does the size of fine particles change as pollutants accumulate?
What is the purpose of the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the issue with batched inference for TDT models?
What is the course code for 80501 Undergraduate Research in Philosophy?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: A Little Night Music?
 What was the highest accuracy reported for Gitksan in Tables 1 and 2?
 In which group were exhaustion biology-related genes enriched according to the gene set enrichment analysis?
Who wrote a paper titled 'Structured programming' in 1969?
What kind of information is available on the Dining Services website for students?
What was the result of the Tartan Men's Cross Country team at Dickinson Long-Short Invitational?
 How many numbers are listed in the sequence: 3.1, 34.2, 3.7, 30.9, 37.9?
What is the website of the Language Technologies Institute?
Can a student petition for transfer credit without the permission of the Program Director?
 What is the main reason for the significant disparity between OSR and SR, as mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Composition) and Elective Studio (Bagpipes)?
Where can students find the Sexual Misconduct Policy of the University?
How long is each lecture session on Generative AI and Large Language Model?
What is the course title of the class held by McCann at POS 151?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Paulini at 4:00 PM on Wednesday and Friday?
Is it possible for someone who has exceeded the time-to-degree limit at MCDS to continue their studies?
What are the days, times, and locations for course 15621 ST: Developing Blockchain Use Cases?
 How does the proposed PointDR compare to the baseline methods in terms of generalization?
 What is the main difference between the proposed decoder-only architecture and an autoregressive LM?
How can a student make an appointment with a Language Development Specialist?
What advice does Berliner give to today's students?
What is the purpose of the university policy on grades?
What is the role of the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) in supporting students' career development at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:30 AM on Friday in PH A22?
 What two cumulative growth processes of pollutants were focused on during the extreme haze event from 8 to 15 February 2020?
 How can AI impact society both positively and negatively according to the text?
When and where will the Data Science Capstone Research class take place?
What is the purpose of the 'Connect' section?
Who is the instructor for Discrete Mathematics?
What are the names and their respective instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 12:00PM in DH 1211, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the dates and times for class B4 TR?
What is the policy on academic integrity at MCDS?
What are the sections covered in this text?
Who is teaching the 54469 Dance Lighting Design class?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
What is the role of Jamie Callan in administering the LTI Ph.D. degree?
What was the date of the women's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Southern N.H.?
Who should a student contact if they want to raise their concern(s) about being treated inappropriately?
Who teaches Information Security, Privacy, and Policy?
Where and when does Internship I: 1-3 take place according to the second listing?
What are the days and times of the Lifeguard Training class offered by Stragar?
 Who authored the article on diurnal variation of tropospheric relative humidity in tropical regions in 2016?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Khokher at TCS 250?
What is the name of the event on March Fri. 16?
What is the name of the course taught by Chen?
Which team did #24 Carnegie Mellon play against in the game mentioned on Sat, Oct/14?
Who are automatically registered for CMU-Alert?
Who teaches Intermediate Microeconomics in TEP 2700?
Where and when is the Cloud Infrastructure and Services class held?
What is cross-registration?
What was James Gosling's role at Sun Microsystems?
Where is the search form located on this website?
What is Energy Transport and Conversion at the Nanoscale about? What are the days and times of this class?
What is the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) at Carnegie Mellon University?
Which language is studied and celebrated by the Language Technologies Institute?
What do they wear under those kilts?
Who received the 2023 Okawa Research Grant to continue his work on modeling human users of natural language processing systems?
What is required for a Carnegie Mellon employee to receive tuition benefits?
What is GSA's role in bringing graduate students from different departments together?
What is the contact information for more information about the dual-degree Ph.D. program?
 What is the purpose of utilizing phrases or paragraphs as the basis of iteration in the text?
What are the course codes and their respective days, times, and locations for Ostlund's Education Finance and Policy class?
What is the name of the person who teaches Aylmer's AB class?
How long is expected to complete MIIS-21 students enrolled for full-time study?
 What correlation coefficient is related to the Kendall’s Tau distance?
 Why is framing machine translation evaluation as a score prediction task considered problematic?
 How does SAMA-based data optimization compare to DAPT and TARTAN-MT in the experiment results in Table 3?
What are the days and times for Design Software Lab?
What are the two scenarios where language technologies can be developed?
Who teaches the second event?
How does the Escort Service operate within a radius of campus between 6:30 pm-6 am daily?
What does Carnegie Mellon University value in its community?
Who teaches the Advanced Game Studio course?
Who is the instructor for Puccini’s Operas: Politics of Representation?
What was the final score of Women's Tennis game on February 24, 2024?
 What algorithm is mentioned for solving the inverse problem for the vocal folds-tract model?
How many independent study courses are offered at this school according to the given information?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study in Literature and Repertoire?
What are the names of the courses being taught in each event?
Who are the instructors of 'Independent Study in Computer Science' (course codes: NSH 15639)?
What is the responsibility of the entire Carnegie Mellon University community?
What are the different sections of Black and White Photography II?
Who is the instructor for Guitar I at Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What is the title of the course that starts at 12:30 PM on Monday and ends at 9:20 PM in room HBH 1007?
What was the significance of Logic Theorist generating proofs for 38 out of Principia Mathematica's first 52 theorems?
What is the purpose of this text?
 What is the recommendation regarding the use of RL1 metrics in retrieval settings?
 How did the aggressive filtering of data according to a critic classifier impact the performance of the COMET model?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching 'External Projects'?
What were some of Dr. Newell's notable achievements?
What should each member of Carnegie Mellon community do according to the text?
Who is the Scott Fahlman Research Professor Emeritus at Language Technologies Institute?
What were the dates when #10 Tartans blanked Wooster and Otterbein?
What is the name of the organization where Plaut conducted their research?
Where can students find information about course changes and deadlines?
 What is the significance of best-case retrieval evaluation in relation to RL1 metrics?
Who should attend a second-year oral presentation in the MLT program?
 How does CodeBERTScore compute the similarity between tokens in generated code and tokens in reference code?
 Where was the paper Denoispeech presented?
What are the topics covered in Production Prep: Grown Ups: Lighting and Media Design?
Where does Fernando Diaz work at Carnegie Mellon University?
What should a student do if they want to withdraw from the MCDS program?
When and where does Isayev teach Neural Networks & Deep Learning in Science?
What does Short-Term Accommodation for Gestational Parents entail?
What is the name of the instructor for 57794 Comprehensive Review (Notes) 1.0 and 57795 Comprehensive Review (Analysis Paper) 1.0?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Elective Studio (Euphonium)?
 Which dataset is mentioned in the text regarding toxicity evaluation results?
What are the days and times for Ceramics for Non-Majors?
What is the name of the person working on Scenic Design for Carnegie?
 What method was used to obtain phoneme alignments?
What was the Nobel Prize that Herbert A. Simon won in 1978?
What is the course title of Voss's class?
What are the days and times of the Design Center: Calligraphy II class?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
 What is XQUAD?
 What is the resolution to which the training images in the ImageNet dataset are randomly resized and cropped?
Who are the authors of the text?
What are the course codes for Learning through Cultural Practices and Community A and B?
Where is the event 'Literature and Repertoire: Harp' located?
When does the Escort Service operate?
What is the purpose of the 'Retrieval of Scientific Data' section according to the text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Major Studio (Guitar)?
What are the days and times of Undergraduate Research class?
Who are the head coaches of Men's Tennis?
What is the name of the degree program described in this handbook?
What is the purpose of Emergency Loans?
Which foreign academies has Herbert A. Simon been recognized as a fellow by?
What are the focus areas for Year 3 (In Pittsburgh) in this program?
What are the names of the courses for Production Management, Stage Management, Scenic Design, Carnegie Scenic, and Lighting Design in Production Prep: Ottone in Villa?
What are the credits for each class listed in the schedule?
What is the course code for Independent Study with Instructor's Name?
 What physical phenomena contribute to the balance of forces necessary for self-sustained vibrations during phonation?
How can graduate students get involved in Tartan Scholars program?
What is the title of Independent Study: Breadth 1-48 and who are its instructors?
 What is the impact of using an adaptive optimizer in base optimization on the relationship between the base Jacobian and the Hessian?
What was CSD's status after emerging from a brief crisis?
What is the significance of the protocol for responding to alleged academic integrity violations?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching the Introduction to Deep Learning course?
What is the sport that Carnegie Mellon University is participating in on Mon, Mar/04?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Research at DNM?
 What is the purpose of assigning error severity and category to each error?
What is the name of the passage for the Dramaturgy B course?
What are the course codes for the two Special Topics courses in Wood Working?
What is the maximum length of time allowable for master's degree completion and certification?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 09:30AM for Gounaris?
What are some of the research problems raised in the course of constructing C.mmp?
What are the names of the professors teaching Combinatorics?
 What is the licensing status of the dataset?
What is the decision-making process for granting transfer credit or issuing course exemptions?
 What was used as the downstream module for HuBERT-MR models?
What should F-1 or J-1 students do if they want to move from an undergraduate to a graduate student classification?
What is the MCDS program's policy on student transfers?
Who was the player that repeated as AP and D3football.com All-American?
What is the maximum amount of consulting work that students funded by LTI research projects are generally permitted to do?
 What is the effect of Fusion-in-Decoder (FiD) on reader performance in the study?
What is the time and location of Makonnen's class?
What are the names of the students in Wenner 80496 Undergraduate Independent Study Mini VAR A?
What is the title of Habib's lecture?
What is the course title of the class taught by Labash on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 9:30 AM in room HBH 1208?
What is the name of the act that guarantees reasonable accommodations for qualified individuals with disabilities?
What is the source of information about resources available around campus and in the Pittsburgh area for families, spouses, and domestic partners of graduate students?
What are the names of the courses being taught at MM A14?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
What is the subject of Phelps's independent study?
When does Squires teach his/her class?
How tall is Kyle Raker?
What happens if a student does not make satisfactory progress each semester?
What is the URL for the Gestational and Parental Accommodations mentioned in the text?
When and where does Carnegie Mellon University-Wide Studies 99239 take place?
In what language does Elementary Arabic 1 Online teach?
What is the role of faculty, staff and students in maintaining The Carnegie Mellon Code?
What are the course codes and their respective locations for Schafer 46924, Yurko 46926 Machine Learning II, Yurko Machine Learning I R2, Wiesel 46944 Stochastic Calculus for Finance I:, Larsson, Andersen 46954 Risk Management:, Hrusa 46956 Fixed Income:, Kuehn 46972 MSCF Investments:, and Pretnar 46976 Macroeconomics for Computational Finance?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Designing Resilient and Sustainable Infrastructure'?
When does the 'Stage Mgt' class take place?
What are the names of the instructors for Elective Studio (Euphonium), Elective Studio (Tuba), and Elective Studio (Percussion) in this text?
What is the location of Machine Learning 10301?
How can one collaborate with LTI?
What is the name of the university where Herbert A. Simon was a professor?
What is the course 'Leading with Equity & Inclusion' about?
 How long was needed for fine rotation-axis alignment for the individuals to be converged in the text?
What is the purpose of Office of the Dean of Students Emergency Support Funding?
How many semesters does it take for a student to complete their degree if they need additional undergraduate courses?
What is the course name for MW 11:00AM - 12:20PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the purpose of internal LM estimation in reducing language bias?
How many seasons are included in the 2023-24 Tartan Men's Golf schedule?
 What is denoted as distance_ !1 in the text?
What is the name of the city where Practicum in Computer Science was written?
On what date is the Women's Tennis match against Sacred Heart taking place?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 9:30 AM on Tuesday and Thursday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the two people who will be working on scenic design in 'A Doll's House'?
Which university won in softball match played on February 28 according to the composite calendar?
 What is the main goal of evaluating SELF-REFINE in this context?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Shkolnikov?
What degree did he receive from the University of New South Wales?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Interaction Design Fundamentals?
Where is the location of the class 'English Diction'?
 What is the resolution of images in the Tiny-ImageNet dataset?
What is the name of the production preparation course that starts at 8 PM?
When and where does Dynamic Systems and Controls take place?
What are the names of the two cities where these events will be held?
What is Playback Theater according to the text?
What is the focus of the Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies?
 In asymmetric noise scenarios, how are the labels flipped?
Who will convene to provide written feedback after a student's oral presentation?
Who teaches the graduate research seminars at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How did the system developed by Wang et al. (2022) train an end-to-end US2ST system?
 What is the main focus of the dictionary post-correction method used in the submission?
What is the course name and instructor for Advanced Synthesis Options Studio?
What is the location of AM CFA 102?
What are the course codes and their respective instructors for Machine Learning (PhD) and Materials Science & Engineering 27050 Study Abroad?
Which course starts with 'F' and who teaches it?
 How is nucleus sampling utilized in transformer inference?
What are the topics of the three study abroad courses listed?
Who has the discretion to approve changes to final grades?
What modes of support are offered by communicators?
What are the course codes and instructors' names of all Simulation Methods for Option Pricing classes?
 How many datasets does GLoRA push the state of the art in under VTAB-1K according to the text?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
What are Indri and Galago?
 At what probability do insertion errors caused by the absence of a target token occur?
 Why was Kruskal-Wallis test chosen over ANOVA?
What is the name of the team's goalkeeper?
How can students change advisors at MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
 What is the purpose of classical approaches to beam search for HMM, CTC, and RNN-T variants?
What type of information can be found in the 'All Staff' category on this website?
What is expected from students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the instructor for Ethical Penetration Testing course?
What is the course title and location of Mitamura's class at GHC 4301?
In which location and at what time does Koenig teach Phd Econometrics I?
What year does the text mention?
What is SafeWalk?
According to Michael Shamos, how relevant is Mauldin's advice today?
What is the name of Abraham's class 'Advanced Arabic I'?
What are the days and times of Organizational Behavior class?
Where and when is the Neural Code Generation Directed Research class held?
 What are two tensor decomposition techniques mentioned in the text for model miniaturization?
What does the MLT program consist of?
Who is the instructor for 'Stage Management'?
What are the class times and location for 'Special Topics in Sound Design'?
 How are errors weighted in the annotation process?
What is the name of the person responsible for each production aspect in the given schedule?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
What are the course names, instructors and timings for Special Topics: Market Engineering and Applications?
 How many languages are included in the Sino-Tibetan language group?
What are the days and times that Thomas Mercier is teaching Foundations of Software Management?
What is the title of the course being held at HL A10 from 12:30PM to 05:30PM on Friday?
What is the time duration of each session in the given schedule?
 What is the chainlink connectivity associated with syndromes?
What are the class times and location of Rapid Prototype Design: A?
Who are the last two instructors listed in this text?
What is the name of the tenth course mentioned in the text?
Where was the CMU Diving Invitational held?
 How many passages does the model read for NQ and OTT-QA experiments?
What are the topics of the courses offered on Monday and Wednesday at 11:00 AM?
 What metrics are used to evaluate the toxicity reduction of LMs by IPA?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in TEP 2701 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When are the classes held at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Mondays and Tuesdays?
How many pages are there according to the given information for Language Technologies Institute website?
What are the names of the instructors for Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Fun with Robots?
What is the name of the department where Fernando Diaz works?
What are the four sub-sections under A.4 Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety?
Where is the school located?
What resources can students find on the library home page?
Where can one find more information about student and affiliate ID cards?
 Which method outperformed baselines with respect to all metrics according to the text?
 Why can using a binary sensitive attribute to encode popularity cause limitations?
What is the course code for Search Engines?
What are the topics of Galeotti's and Zhu's courses?
What is the course code for History of World Architecture, I?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches TBA?
Where can students find a full schedule of programs offered by the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education?
 What issue does the TDT model help avoid in cases of repeated tokens?
What are the athletic/fitness facilities available at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What algorithm is used to compute query-model similarity scores in the model selection process?
What is the purpose of the E-Verify Processing Request Form?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Production Prep: Lear' on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM at TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the class times and locations for all classes taught by Professor Rosenberg?
Who is the instructor for the Artist Diploma Recital course?
What are the names of the classes offered in Acting III?
What is the name of the course that covers Advanced Multimodal Machine Learning?
What are the locations for the Proseminar in Transnational History course?
What does 'integrated' mean in this context?
 What is the significance of considering trade-offs between properties in the search process?
 In the kNN-LM model, what happens to most of the datastore entries in comparison to the parametric model?
What is the name of the class where Lighting Production is being taught?
When and where will the 'Senior Research Project' take place?
 What does the multitask data format used by OWSM include?
What is the relationship between completing an M.S. degree and getting a Ph.D. according to this text?
What is the name of Vincent Naik's lecture on Applied Cell Biology?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Kitchin 06634?
What is Tardio's course about?
Which university played a final game in women's tennis against University of Mount Union on February 25?
Where are the Collaborative Innovation Center Garage, Gates Center Garage, East Campus Garage, and Dithridge Street Garage located?
What are the three courses offered by Instructor in Comprehensive Review (Notes) 1.0?
Who teaches the 'Black and White Photography II' course?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Sensors, Circuits, and Data Interpretation and Mgmt'?
What event did the team participate in?
What are the names of the two people teaching the 'Production Prep: Penelope: Lighting Production' and '54672 Production Prep: Sender: VAR Directing A' classes?
What are the academic programs represented by Lakshay Arora and Siddhant Arora?
What are the days and times for the course 'Piano Maintenance I 6.0'?
 In which months did MERRA-2 show higher dust column concentrations compared to GRASP/Component dust retrieval in the BOB region?
What is the location of Wiegand Gymnasium relative to the temporary strength and conditioning facility?
What is the location of the HUB Student Services Center?
What is the course name and instructor's name for the class that takes place from 9:00 AM to 10:20 AM on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
What kind of support does the University Libraries offer to graduate students?
How many types of faculty are mentioned in the text?
What is the address of Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the course taught by Stragar that introduces students to Cardio Fitness/Sculpt?
Why are there terms of service, privacy policy, report abuse options provided at the end?
What are some topic areas for reporting through the Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches Fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering on Monday, Wednesday from 10:00AM-11:50AM in CYH 100A?
Who should students contact for Language Support Orientation?
 Why were several languages deliberately excluded from the paired data used for supervised learning?
 What efforts have been made to reduce unintentional biases in the dataset used to train the Jais-chat 13B model?
 How is individual fairness defined in the context of music discovery?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this page?
Can students take electives outside of SCS that are cross-registered at the University of Pittsburgh?
What is the purpose of the Student Information Online (SIO)?
What are the dates and times of the Maker Series Intro to Manual Machining courses?
What are the days of the week when each course is offered at thematics 2.0?
What is the challenge Professor faces in utilizing 'found data'?
What are the course codes for the courses offered in the schedule?
What are the days and times of Organic Chemistry II classes offered at DH 2302?
What are the names of the two professors teaching in Doha?
What are the days of the week when these classes take place?
What are the class timings for Independent Study?
Can you provide more details about Course Registration, as per section 4.1.2 of the text?
Can a Masters student use courses taken as part of another degree program toward their M.S. degree requirements without prior approval?
What are the names of the teachers mentioned in this text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Gormley?
What are the class locations for Arithmetic Statistics, Stochastic Calculus, Reading and Research, and all other courses listed?
What is the name of the conference mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:25 PM on Tuesdays?
Where can I learn more about the CPT process?
What does the text say about the origin of the tradition of wearing kilts in the Kiltie Band?
What are the two courses being offered by Ion and Levin-Decanini?
Which proficiency test is required for graduate students in Keyboard Studies (Graduate)?
When and where will students take 'Masters Chemical Engineering Project (1-48)?
What are the dates for the basketball games mentioned in the text?
Where did the UAA Match Play Championship take place?
What is the location of Younis' internship?
What is the location of each course?
What resources are available for students at Carnegie Mellon University, according to section 6?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the credits and location of Skopov's course Introduction to Writing for Television?
What are the course names for each day/time mentioned in the text?
How many sections are discussed in the text?
What are the names of the classes that start with 'Masters Project: TBA F' and 'Masters Project: TBA G'?
How many Master degrees are offered by the institution in total?
What is the course code for Econometrics for Policy?
 What is compared in Table 3 regarding the effect of LLM intervention?
What is the Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title of Rhetoric & the Construction of Race?
Where does Draping Fundamentals take place?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching Ph.D. Thesis?
Where is Proseminar in Entrepreneurial Leadership held?
 What approach is used to iteratively generate captions with the pragmatic speaker S1?
What is the name and time of the course taught by Tonguz at POS 147?
 Why was it challenging to generate a comprehensive set of values, rights, and duties for situations?
Who are the instructors listed for the undergraduate independent study mini VAR A4, excluding Zaffora Blando?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Monday in room MM 307?
What was the outcome of Carnegie Mellon's match against Wash. & Jeff.?
What does 'LTI' stand for in this context?
What type of courses can students take through Carnegie Mellon University's cross-registration program?
 What decoding technique is applied for S2UT?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
What are the contact details for Jennifer M Lucas?
What are the requirements for a dissertation document in SCS?
What are the names of the two people mentioned in this text?
What is the Office of International Education (OIE) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the phone number of Kemal Oflazer's office at Carnegie Mellon - Qatar Campus?
What is the course name and instructor for the course listed at 18.0 Lec TR 01:00PM 04:50PM?
What are the course codes and their respective credits for Software Engineering Practicum Internship and Societal Computing Independent Study?
What are the days and times of Software Engineering for AI-Enabled Systems class?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
What is the class name and instructor of class 57180?
What are the names of the instructors for Statics?
 What are the two baseline methods selected for evaluating PointDR in the experiments?
What are the days and times when course 11423 is offered?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What is the name of the organization that offers MS Research SV in San Jose, California?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
 According to the text, what has a great deal of literature dedicated itself to when adapting static pretrained models to new downstream domains?
What types of initiatives are offered by Carnegie Mellon University for transgender and non-binary students?
 What does the text discuss about the probability of ties amongst system rankings?
How many courses are listed in the text?
What is The Link magazine in relation to Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times for Collaborative Piano Skills I (57207) in this text?
 What does the hierarchical relation extraction for events involve?
What are the days and times of Caton B's Voice and Speech II: Practicums class?
Who is the instructor for Poepping's Clinical Data Science course?
What is the event that starts at TBA on Saturday, March 2nd?
What is independent study discussed in section 5.1.4?
What are the timings for 'Large Format Photography: The Antiquarian Avant-Garde'?
When and where are 57104 Elective Studio (Beginning Piano Class) and 57106 Elective Studio (Jazz Piano I Class) held?
What are the proficiencies that students need to fulfill in Ph.D. program?
What are the days and time of ETC Cooperative Education in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the main advice given in this text to students who are planning their course load?
 What is the primary finding related to the informativity-fluency trade-off in the human assessments?
When and where will Policy Seminar II be held?
When and where is Special Topics: Fundamentals of Programming for Engineering Systems offered?
What are the days and times of Kurland's AutoCAD 3.0 class?
What are the course codes for Byrne and Erdolu's MSCD Pre-Thesis 1, Mondor's MUD Urban Ecology, and Building Controls and Diagnostics?
Which option is a traditional way of sharing content?
What is D4 in this context?
 What is important to underscore regarding the support tensors in GLoRA?
Who are the coordinators mentioned in the text?
 What is denoted as the z-axis in the one-mass asymmetric model of vocal folds?
What are the days and times for Undergraduate Research held in DNM, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the primary technique mentioned for improving bandwidth in Android apps?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
Who is the head coach of Women's Basketball at Andrew University?
When and where does the History of the Symphony class take place?
Who are the instructors at Greenhouse M?
What are the class times for all classes listed in the text?
What is the name of the person who starts their course at 05:00 PM on Wednesday?
What is the name of the course taught by Levinson at DNM Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the instructor for 57143 Elective Studio (Alexander Technique I)?
What is the date of the men's tennis match between Johns Hopkins and Carnegie Mellon?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in the given text?
 What kind of evaluation is discussed in the text?
What is the purpose of the Symposium 2023 mentioned in the text?
Where can students find more general information about research at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of this website?
 What are the maximum absolute differences in dust column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component dust retrieval in September and June?
How many pages is the document that contains this text?
 What are some of the proposed remedies for the effects of temporal degradation in modeling text?
How many students are there for each instrument in Major Studio?
When does the Costume Production class take place?
 What problem does DPHuBERT aim to solve?
Does the early completion policy affect the statute of limitations for Master’s students according to the text? If so, how?
Which office provides support for international students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How are the duration predictions handled in the UnitY model?
What is the name of the institution where Societal Computing Pre-Thesis P took place?
When does Stephenson teach 'Information Systems Project 0-24'?
What is the subject of each class listed in the text?
When was Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science established as a standalone college?
What is the name of the course taught by Sciannameo that starts at 3-9 PM and has no specific days mentioned?
What is the purpose of SafeWalk?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-12 for Instructor TBA 90968 and Instructor TBA 90979?
What is the course name for the class that starts at 9:00 AM on Fridays in room MM 415IW?
What is the course code for Network Analysis: The Hidden Structures behind the Webs We Weave?
 What is the column type used in the GC-IMS conditions?
 How does the paper propose to treat imprecise label information?
 What is the benefit of using Unlimiformer in terms of processing long inputs during inference?
 What improvement in error was observed when utilizing the phonatory module for predictable AMs?
What are some resources available for CMU's graduate students?
Under which section does Campus Wellness fall under in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
How can one find the most up-to-date schedule for varsity athletics at Wiegand Gymnasium?
When and where does MSCF Business Communication II N take place?
What did Reddy launch a drive for at CMU?
How many faculty members did the School of Computer Science have in 2013?
 What additional complexity does SLU introduce?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
When does the Elective Studio (Beginning Piano Class) start in Music 57103?
What are the two time slots for 'Production Prep: Love and Money'?
What was the name of the graduate recital?
Can students receive credit for external courses completed at another institution?
Who is the composer of Chamber Music: Woodwind and Mixed 3.0?
Who is responsible for guiding and monitoring each student's progress through the program?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What days of the week do the Maker Series Intro to Manual Machining courses take place on?
What are the system requirements for laptops used by Master’s students at this university?
What is the course code for Fundamentals of Maneuver Warfare and Amphibious Operations?
What is the name of the tournament that Carnegie Mellon's Women's Golf team will be attending on Monday, March 11?
What is the name of the institution that launched CMU Portugal's new ERP Signo?
Who are the authors of Junior Recital 1.0 AA?
What happens at the end of Longer-than-standard Completion?
 What is the step involved in activating the concrete units in simulating the fracture of the steel wire strand?
What are the days and times of Study Abroad?
What are the circumstances that warrant a grade appeal?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
 How did participants in the study feel the practice task helped them?
Who teaches the Music 57016 Viola Studio Performance Class?
What are the names and instructors of the two classes that start at 05:00 PM on Wednesdays?
Who are the authors of Masters Thesis II?
What is the title of the course that starts at 02:00PM and ends at 04:50PM on Monday?
What happens if a student is found to have falsified their academic records?
What is the name of the course for Bagpipe History?
Where can students find more information about the master’s degree statute of limitations policy at CMU?
What are Anatole Gershman's research areas?
Why is it advantageous for students not to switch advisors late in their graduate studies?
What are the names of the two people teaching the 'Lighting Production J' and 'Production Prep: Sender: VAR Directing A' classes?
 What are the limitations of FedEP mentioned in the text?
What are some of the interactive elements available in CTAT?
What happens if a student commits an Academic Integrity Violation for the second time in the MCDS program?
Where and when does Communication of EST&P Internship Experience take place?
How many pages does this webpage have?
How are the results of end-of-semester evaluations recorded in a student's transcript?
How do communicators help clients in advanced English language learning?
What is the course description for each activity in the given text?
What are the course codes and their respective meeting times for BME Design Project and Biomedical Optical Imaging?
Where is Laboratory IV: Molecular Spectroscopy and Dynamics taught?
Is there a deadline extension available for Fall 2024 admission at the School of Computer Science?
 How were clean and polluted conditions defined based on PM2.5 mass concentrations?
What is the course name of the class offered on Monday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday at BH A36 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the function of the max iteration parameter in the PAR architecture?
 Were people provided with privacy guarantees for the dataset?
Who is teaching Retro Game Lab and what are its details?
At what time does Hibshi A start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Elementary Japanese II at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What decoding technique is proposed for inference in AAC models?
What are the three different sections of Yoga class offered in this text?
What should a student do if their course instructor has not assigned a grade?
Where and when does the course 'History and Future of Interaction Design' take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where and when does Optimization and Risk Modeling for Managers take place?
 How does the performance of Hindi and Indonesian change with the model and training data size increase?
What is the name of the instructor who will be teaching the class on 'Consumer Analytics in Health Care'?
Who is teaching Production Prep: Lonely Planet on Saturday?
Who are the assistant coaches for Tim Connelly in Women's Track & Field?
What is the title of the course being offered in room HH C102 at 3 PM?
What are the names of the instructors who teach on Tuesday and Thursday at 06:30PM-08:50PM in DH 2302 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What happens if a student is prefunded and has to attend research talks?
What are the names of the instructors at this school?
What are the time slots of the Stage Management class?
What is the total number of units required for both MIIS-16 and MIIS-21 degrees?
 What is the color gradient used to indicate the trend of an episode in the Ant Maze task?
Can credit given for research or independent study be counted as an LTI or SCS course?
What are the requirements for committee members in MLT thesis?
What is the university's policy on academic integrity?
What does 'J' in Viola class timing stand for?
Who teaches Chamber Music: Guitar and what are the days and times of the class?
 Why is it mentioned that existing Arabic benchmarks do not include knowledge and commonsense evaluation?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
What are the dates of the Independent Study in CS Education (Masters) course?
 What is an example of a phenomenon strongly present in ILA related to the bilingualism among the communities?
Where does the author mention that they are from in relation to Pennsylvania?
What benefits does Carnegie Mellon extend to domestic partners of students?
What is the title of the Software Engineering Independent Study class?
What are the dates and times for Stage Management class in Pittsburgh?
 What distribution did Louizos et al. adopt to model the gates?
What are the days and times for 80611 Undecidability and Incompleteness?
 How can the concentration of chemical substances in different samples be obtained?
Who is the instructor for Accelerate Leadership in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the schedule for Gesling Stadium and Soccer Field during Spring Semester?
Who should international students consult with regarding billing and financial aid for early completion, longer-than standard completion or integrated undergraduate and master’s degree programs?
What are the dates and times of Loh B W's lecture?
What kind of rooms are available for new mothers on campus?
Who are the instructors for independent studies at various times and locations in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the call regarding labeling practices across various domains?
Where can you find full information about these services, stops, routes, tracking and schedules?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the course on Monday, Wednesday, Friday (MTWRF) at 6:30 PM - 10:30 PM?
What is the purpose of registering for five units of dissertation research in the semester a student defends their thesis?
What are the GRE report codes required by this institution?
What are the days and times when 'History 79149 Ancient Rome: What Have the Romans Ever Done for Us?' is offered?
 What is the advantage of retrieving the top-k hidden states in terms of computation and GPU-memory?
What is the purpose of the MCDS program according to the text?
Where is the Design Fabrication class held and who is the instructor?
Who teaches the third independent study project?
What are the names of the three people mentioned in this text who have a Master's degree?
 What is stored in the memory bank B in PointDR?
What is the location of the educational game design course?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room BH 154A?
What are the course credits for the courses listed in the text?
 Why is consistency crucial in language understanding according to the text?
At what time does Internship class start and end according to the given schedule?
What time does the 'Beginning Piano for Children II' class start?
What are the names of the subjects listed in this table?
Who are the instructors for Interaction Design Fundamentals?
When was the Carnegie Mellon Invitational for Track and Field held, and what time did it start?
What are the three courses being offered in this schedule?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
Who teaches the Collaborative Project in Music Entrepreneurship class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching at TEP 2610 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When does Introduction to Digital Humanities take place?
What are the days and times for the class titled 'Machine Learning for Business Applications'?
What is the name of the instructor teaching the course 'Practicum in HCI'?
What are the requirements for admission into this program?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Machine Learning 10315?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
What is the course name and instructor of 'Bio-nanotechnology: Principles and Applications'?
What are the students who do not receive vouchers and do not participate in the voucher process?
What are the course codes for Practicum in Mathematical Sciences, Introduction to Functional Analysis, and Algebraic Topology?
 What datasets were used in the experiments described in the text?
 What does RL1 stand for in the context of ranking systems evaluation?
 What is T5 used for in the encoding process?
 Why is discerning the relationship between K and final accuracy challenging without fully training the model?
What is the name of the course that teaches mastering collaborative strategies and business environments?
What are the main categories of student awards offered by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
How many ECTS credits are required to complete this doctoral program?
Who are the instructors for 'Steep by Steep: Investigation into Tea Culture'?
When is the Study Abroad program held?
 What type of article is this?
What is the percentage of nonnative speakers of English who attend Carnegie Mellon University?
 Who conducted a study on the changes made by Android developers to improve app performance?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the name of the instructor for Special Topics in Embedded Systems: Autonomous Robotics?
Where was smart traffic signals first rolled out?
Where can students find contact information for the MCDS program according to the text?
What is the time slot for Stage Management's rehearsal schedule?
 What impact does adding phoneme-specific weights for each feature have in the proposed method?
 According to the text, what can be used as a reference for the evaluation and identification of Schisandra chinensis germplasm resources?
What is the reason behind not allowing pass/fail grades for courses used to satisfy a degree requirement?
Which sections cover winter and summer breaks at CMU?
What is the location of X4 class?
 How often do you feel like your work would have been valued more by the community if you had access to more computational resources?
Who teaches Energy Transport and Storage: A?
What are the recommended courses for SCS candidates who want to complete an undergraduate minor in Language Technologies?
What is the name of the person who will be working on Media Design for Lonely Planet?
Why was Accent not compatible with UNIX?
What time does the 'Introduction to Show Networking' class start and end?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
 How many bins are the values split into during the binning process?
What type of events are happening at Language Technologies Institute in February 2024?
What are the three aspects included in each project according to the text?
What is the policy regarding consensual intimate relationships between undergraduate students at CMU?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
 What is the aim of the study mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in Production Prep for Macbeth?
What are the differences between CMU's different departments and degree programs in philosophical approach, procedures, policies, and regulations?
 How does weak supervision aim to reduce data labeling costs?
When does Professor Yamakawa's 'Engineering Computation Project' class take place?
What should a student do if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated?
How is an advisor selected for each student?
Where is Moura and Kar's class 'Introduction to Computer Systems' held?
 Who are some individuals acknowledged in the text for their contributions?
What are the conditions under which a degree can be withdrawn from LTI?
 According to the text, what works typically focus on hierarchical relations among mentions in a document?
What is the name of the course mentioned for instructor TBA Y?
What could have happened if SCS (School of Computer Science) had not succeeded in the 1970s?
How many credits are required to complete Principles of Functional Programming?
What time does the Softball match against Case Western Reserve start?
When and where is Advanced DP3: Painting - Reverence And Representation class held?
Where is the Internship in Psychology class held?
How many units of “LTI” courses are needed for the student to meet the course requirements?
Who offers the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
What is the purpose of A.1.5 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes for Elementary French II Online and Arabic I?
At what time does Programming for R & Python E4 start?
What is the source of information for add/drop/withdraw deadlines?
What is the course title of the class that takes place in PH 125B at 3:30 PM on Tuesdays?
Who can contact the Language Technologies Institute according to the given information?
What are the names of the courses that start at 7:00 PM on Wednesday in CFA A6?
 What kind of improvements does GLaM empirically report from filtering, particularly on Natural Language Generation tasks?
What is the course name taught by Leon on Saturday at 07:00 PM in room MM B8?
What are the class times for the 'Project Planning and Reporting' course?
What is the course code for Mechanical Engineering Co-op?
What change did Berliner make in his field of study when he switched from physics to psychology?
What are the course codes for Study Abroad and DC Grand Challenge Seminar: Causes and Consequences of Health Disparities?
How can students find more information about the Language Technologies Institute's location?
Who deserves the credit for creating a school of computer science according to Jordan?
What is the location of each class in this schedule?
 What role do CD8+TILs play in exerting effector functions?
Who has a PhD in Language and Information Technology according to this text?
Who are the instructors in this list?
What is the course code for LGBTQ+ History?
What are Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI) mentioned under which section in the handbook?
What does a good letter from the faculty indicate about a student's progress?
 Which method with both CTC and LM fusion achieved the best performance in the experiments?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two Mechanical Systems Experimentation classes?
What does the text suggest about the importance of university policies regarding research activities?
How many production preparation classes are there?
What are the course codes and instructors for all classes offered by Timperley?
Who is the instructor for class B that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
Where is the instructor of 'Ancient Rome: What Have the Romans Ever Done for Us?' teaching from?
What is the course code, title, instructor's name, and meeting time of the lecture that takes place on Tuesday from 7:00 PM to 9:50 PM?
Who teaches the Societal Computing Practicum Internship?
How many Carnegie Mellon University student-athletes were named to the Tennis and Softball Academic All-District Teams?
Is there any mention of the location where these athletes are from in the text?
How tall is Anika Prasad?
How serious are letters indicating trouble for a student?
What is the name of the course taught by Zhou B?
What is the course being offered by Dayal in Finite Elements in Mechanics I?
What is the course title for the class that starts at 12:00 PM on Fridays?
What is the maximum and minimum course load at MIIS?
What is the name of the band that the boys form in 'The Kiltie Band'?
What does IDPlus stand for?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon University's Graduate Women’s Gatherings (GWGs)?
When is the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Case Western Reserve scheduled for Fri, Apr/26?
What was the name of the machine that beat Kasparov in 1997?
What are the course codes and days of the Study Abroad and ECE Sophomore Seminar courses?
Who can make a reservation for facility use on campus?
 How is the solution for Equation 6 obtained?
Who is Cooper according to the text?
Where do these instructors teach in Pittsburgh?
 What is the purpose of the Genetic programming parameters in Table 2?
What is the course code for Islamic Economics?
What is the name of the third course mentioned in the text?
Which office provides support for graduate students' academic and research needs at Carnegie Mellon University?
When is the Old School - New School Challenge event happening?
Where and when is Disruptive Technologies in Arts Enterprises held?
What is the course code for Acting for Leadership and Communication taught by Murphy B4?
 What is the main focus of the text?
What is the course code for the lecture taught by Vincent A W Naik in PH 226A, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the time slots and locations of Software Management Independent Study, Software Management Capstone Project, Start Up Creation in Practice, Innovation & Entrepreneurship, Language Technologies Institute 11324, Machine Learning in Practice 11344, Undergrad Independent Study 11345 and LTI Minor Project - Juniors 11390?
Who are Syeda Akter and Fatima Al-Raisi?
Which players share the same jersey number on the 2023 Tartans Women's Soccer roster?
What did Tartans win at the Muskingum and Bucknell Open?
What are the roles of each person leading a production preparation session for Macbeth?
What is the significance of discussing this topic according to the author?
 What are the two modalities in which in-depth analyses are performed to show that ORCA is competitive with expert-designed task-specific models?
Who is Abbey Reese?
What is the course title, instructor's name, and class time for Woloshyn's class?
What time does the class 'Eurhythmics II' start?
What is the course name for class E W 01:00PM 01:50PM?
Who must approve a student's request to switch tracks in the MIIS program?
What are the days and times of the classes for Directing A?
Why did Berliner feel frustrated nearing age 40?
What kind of sessions did Kim Hochstedler from Women's Swimming and Diving participate in?
What is considered as 'Task-Orientation Focus Course'?
What are the names of all classes taught by Portnykh that start with 'A'?
Which organization collaborates with Carnegie Mellon Portugal Program to offer these scholarships?
What are the names and instructors for the courses offered as PhD electives?
What are the course names for each time slot?
What happens when someone withdraws from a degree program according to the handbook?
What are the days and time slots of Corporate Communications Simulation class?
Where can students find tuition information in this text?
 Why can evaluating the quality of generated text be challenging?
What are the days and times for the course 'Academic Variant 1-12 A TBA TBA'?
What are the names of the two speakers and their respective topics in the fifth session?
What is the course name taught by Kim in MM 211 on Monday?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at CFA ACH in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of the lecture by Noel?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Monday and Wednesday from 3:00 PM to 3:50 PM in room HOA 224?
What are the primary areas of language technologies investigated at the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the credits for 'ETC Cooperative Education' and who are the instructors?
What is the purpose of this text?
 What is used in tomography beamlines to accomplish rotation-axis alignment?
What are the class names and their respective days/times in the given schedule?
What is the date and time of the Gettysburg College meet?
What is the name of the course taught by Spangler and Bowser?
 Which syndrome is characterized by dysfunctional SHANK2 and CHRNA7 genes?
What are the course codes for Arabic Calligraphy Culture & Skills and Chinese Calligraphy: Culture and Skills?
What kind of resources does GSA maintain for graduate students?
What is the location of Computing @ Carnegie Mellon - H1?
What is the name of the course taught by Gorman at A3 TR 09:30AM - 10:50AM in CUC POOL?
What is the contact information for Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times of Zhou C's class?
Where is the location of CMU's Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC)?
 Why is multilingual machine translation proposed according to Johnson et al. (2017)?
What services does University Health Services provide?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study 84313 and Independent Study 84329?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Graduate Design Studio II at 09:00 AM on Friday?
What is the course code for Studies in Chinese Literature: The Enchanting World of Chinese Ghost Tales & Ctr?
What are the names of the two Technology Strategy classes that take place on Monday and Wednesday at Derdenger?
Who founded Stanford's AI Lab?
What is mentioned in the text about Student Health Services?
What is the duration of the 'Advanced Topics in Stage Management I: Communication' course?
When does 'Privacy Policy, Law, and Technology' take place?
 Why is scaled identity considered a strong baseline in the experiments mentioned?
Are direct transfers into the MCDS program permitted?
What are the dates and times of the Production Prep sessions for Love and Money?
What is the course code for Chinese Mythology and Animation?
Which player is from Pottstown, Pennsylvania?
What is the course topic for Advanced Research in Hispanic Language & Culture?
What is the role of Instructor TBA AB in this text?
What are the names of the classes that start at 05:00PM and end at 06:20PM?
What time does the Men's Golf team start their Tiger Invitational 'B' Team event on Sunday, March 10?
Who teaches the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty'?
Who is the instructor for Major Studio (Harp) at this school?
Where are these music studies studios located?
Are waivers issued based on previous study at an English-language high school, college, or university outside of the United States?
What is the course name and instructor for Financial Analysis for Managers?
Where do the boys in the story live?
What kind of initiatives does the university provide for students' wellness?
 How does the asynchronous score fusion handle the mismatch between frame and label time indices?
Where and when does Professional Development take place?
What is the purpose of a statement of purpose according to this text?
 What is PointDR and what is its purpose?
What is the course code of the Synthetic Biology course offered by Zhang in POS 153 at 11:00 AM on Tuesday?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at 03:50PM in PH 225B?
 How does Pengi leverage Transfer Learning?
What is the duration of Sylvania Mitchell's Masters Report?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Jan/28?
How did Rashid's positive attitude affect others at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
What type of camp is the Men's Soccer Camps ID Camp?
Where are the Maker Series Intro to Manual Machining courses held?
What are some recommended electives outside of SCS mentioned in the handbook?
What documents are required from each university attended by applicants?
What is the role of the university policy in relation to students' education records?
What are the days and times of Thomson's schedule?
What is the course name for MSBA Capstone?
What is the name of the course offered by Sylvania Manriquez?
What is the university's vision?
Is the Highmark Center for Health, Wellness and Athletics currently constructed?
What are the course codes for Gennari's classes?
How can students get assistance from Computing Services?
Who teaches the Drama 54006 Independent Study course?
When and where does the Advanced Linguistics Seminar take place?
What happens to the courses dropped using a late course drop voucher?
 What is the purpose of using x-vectors in the encoder output?
What is the URL of the Student Academic Success Center's website?
What is the course code for 'Chemistry and Sustainability' taught by Matyjaszewski?
What is the name of the course being taught by Engineer D in room WEH5304 at 2:00 PM?
What is the course code for Exploring Modern Mathematics?
Where is LTI located?
What is the title of Ben's course at NM Los Angeles?
Who are the instructors teaching Oral Communication in PH 125C on MW at 02:00PM?
Which instrument does Wu teach at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What are the expectations for students at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of Harrison's class?
Who can student-athletes contact for more information about the Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow (TLT) program?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on MWF from 10:00AM to 10:50AM at CUC FITNES in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What resources were incorporated into WebArena for information seeking and knowledge acquisition?
What is the name of the person teaching the Marketing Communication for Consumer Brands course?
Who is the instructor for the Production Prep: External Projects class on Wednesdays?
How can one apply for admission in Dual Degree Ph.D. programs at this institution?
What is the instructor for Gloria's stage management class?
 What are some of the metrics used in the experimental setting described in the text?
 What models were initially trained on the dataset?
What types of resources are offered through the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
What is the name of the instrument being studied in each studio class?
What is the recommended time frame for students to register with the Office of the Dean of Students?
What was the date of Penn State Last Chance event?
 How did the latencies behave in the experiments mentioned in the text?
 What is the structure of the WavLM model as described in the text?
 What information is lacking in Assimilated AOD observations in MERRA-2?
Is it mandatory for students to register for CMU Alert?
How are water fountains updated in athletic spaces?
Is this a general guide for all campuses or just one specific campus?
What is the name of the platform that secured $21 million in funding?
What was the title of Dr. Newell's final book, published by Harvard University Press in 1990?
 What are the two most common options for input representations in NMT systems?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA in Spacagna AD's location?
In which sport did Carnegie Mellon compete against Stevens on March 1st?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Recital/Project and Artist Diploma Studio 3-36 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How are transcripts computed in the separate E2E model according to Eq. 4?
Who are Braun and what course do they teach together?
What are Ross Macklin and Steven Rerick's titles and contact information?
What is the course code for Kinetics of Metallurgical Reactions and Processes?
 Are the shared task organizers and contributors mainly from academia?
How are The Plaidvocates trained throughout the year?
What does 'third parties' mean in the context of the Privacy Policy?
What are the course codes of all courses taught by Wilder in Pennsylvania Gormley?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the schedule?
 What is the primary focus of the CIKM ’23 conference mentioned in the text?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
 How does the performance of the unsupervised S2ST systems compare to Translatotron in De-En and Es-En translation directions?
What is the name of the course taught by Anel Q?
What opportunities does Carnegie Mellon University offer for students taking courses?
What does the Read More button do?
What are the three courses in Production Prep category?
 What software was used for statistical analyses in the study?
What is the name of the course taught by Dr. Compeau that starts on Tuesday at 12:30 PM and lasts for 12 credits?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product in the BOB region?
 What is the main difference between the prediction network state in an RNN-T model and an RNA model?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
How many international students attend Carnegie Mellon University?
What is mentioned as being online and on page 9 in this text?
What is the course name for course code 'NSH 15621'?
Who is the instructor for DD?
 What is the output of the ReVerb system in the ReVerb45k dataset?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
Who are the instructors for independent studies in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How many independent studies are listed in this text?
What are the days and times for each subject in Production Prep:Penelope?
What resources are available for MS students at Carnegie Mellon University's Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the course offered in Critical Studies: Picturing Asian America?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Frontiers, Analysis, and Discovery in Biological Sciences?
What are the different production areas that are mentioned in this text?
 What kind of adaptors performed significantly worse than end-to-end in the study?
What is the name of the instructor for the class 'Advanced Film Production'?
What is the course name and instructor for 36707?
 How is the contrastive loss defined in PointDR?
Where can you find information about printers provided by the School of Computer Science for student use?
What should a person do in case of an emergency at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where are the most convenient printers/photocopiers for LTI students located?
 What does calculating the agent ratio involve?
 What is the training criterion mentioned in the text for end-to-end ASR models?
What is the main purpose of the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times of Basic Science to Modern Medicine class?
What is the purpose of the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence &amp; Educational Innovation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name and credit hours for Berges 12746?
 What is the purpose of the phonatory module in the analysis pipeline for voice-face correlation?
What are the names of the courses offered at Harvilla?
 What does a weakly positive correlation between human annotations and ChatGPT annotations indicate?
What is the course code for Mathematical Modeling of Chemical Engineering Processes?
 What is the objective of the forward-backward approach in estimating VFO parameters?
What is the course name and location for Financial Data Science I MW 03:00PM - 04:30PM?
Which university does the LTI PhD program belong to?
What are the days, times, and locations of George's classes?
Who are the speakers at the event 'A3 MW 11:00AM 12:20PM'?
 According to the text, how can the relevance of SSL model layers be related to speech domain?
What is the name of the teacher and their respective classroom in Doha?
Who was named CMU Student-Athlete of the Week?
What are the dates and times of Yousssifi's classes?
What time does the Acting for the Camera class start at?
What is the role of QPA in evaluating transfer courses?
 What is the purpose of modifying the distribution in random sampling strategies?
Why might someone encounter a 'File Not Found' error when visiting this website?
What are the criteria for course requirements in Language and Information Technologies degree?
What are the names of the instructors for Eurhythmics I?
When and where are the Costume Design classes held?
What is the purpose of this text?
What time does Acting for the Camera class start?
What are the names of all classes that start with 'G' in the schedule?
What is the name of Gloria's class in Video & Media?
 What is AGR and why is it relevant in the context of the study?
What is the name of the course being taught by Brumley in Pittsburgh?
What does 'TR' stand for in the context of class schedules according to this text?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C102 from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM on Wednesday?
Who are the affiliated faculty members mentioned in this text?
What are the names of the courses being offered in Production Prep?
What was created by Pat when he became president of Georgia Tech?
What is the reference for university policy regarding withdrawal of a degree?
When and where is the Machine Learning in Production Software Engineering class held?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about military strategy and doctrine?
 What is the purpose of using ChatGPT within the AudioGPT system?
What is the location of all independent studies listed?
What should students do if they need accommodations for their pregnancy?
What was ChipTest?
What is the purpose of the Academic Calendar in a university setting?
What is the course code for Practicum 1-48?
What was the founding head of CMU's Computer Science Department like according to Berliner?
When is 'Advanced Fabrication 2' held?
 What were the inclusion criteria for the treatment-naive patients in the study?
What is the course name for 'Introduction to Competitive Pokemon'?
 What additional consideration should be taken into account for a future EQA scheme?
Who are the instructors involved in the production preparation for 'A Doll's House'?
Where is the lecture for Ada, Saad E F held?
What are the days, times, and locations of Usable Privacy and Security (Goel 17734)?
 What did the authors not observe in the preliminary result of the SLU task?
What is the purpose of this seminar?
 What is depicted in Figure 6 of the Human Evaluation Interface?
 What is the importance of carrying out a reproducibility study of InPars?
When does Amgott's lecture take place?
What are the names of the classes that start with 'B', 'C', and 'D'?
When does Douglas Instrumental Ensemble perform?
Who are the instructors teaching Internship in DNM on TBA?
When and where does Sensing Place through Color take place?
 How are errors categorized during the annotation process?
What instrument does Wu teach at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What are the two main breaks in CMU's academic year?
Why did DARPA's new director cut Traub's budget?
Who are the teachers who have a class in PH A18C?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about Operations Management or Operations Research?
Who is the head coach of Football at Andrew University?
What is the name of the institution that offers courses in Opera 3-9 A, Independent Study in Solfege 3-9 A, and Independent Study in Eurhythmics 3-9 A?
What does 'Men's Golf' mean?
What is the Nobel Foundation Official Web site?
What was the date of the game between Carnegie Mellon and Case Western Reserve?
When does Readings and Discussions in Fiction, Culture, and Criticism take place?
What are the days and times of Urban Design Methods and Theory?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the given time slots for Production Audio?
Who teaches Music Studio 3-9 class?
What are the names of the courses taught by each teacher?
 What are some famous tourist areas in Abu Dhabi?
 What is the estimated cost of generation in the InPars-light study mentioned in the text?
What is the name of Hermann's Accelerate Leadership Assessment?
 How are the offline ST models evaluated?
 What was the first experiment that showed effectiveness of MT?
 What role does genetic algorithm play in the alignment method discussed in the text?
What is the role of the Division of Student Affairs in supporting graduate students?
What is the university policy on grading?
 What GPU was used for fine-tuning the models?
 What optimizer was applied to the models during training?
What does Scotty do in the show?
What are the dates and times for course 15642?
What are the available positions for tenure-track faculty at the CMU Language Technologies Institute?
When and where is 'Automated Science Internship' held?
What are the course codes, titles, days of the week, and times offered by Beckwith in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Write a poem about coffee.
 What type of learning objective does PiCO adopt?
What is the importance of understanding principles of Surface Engineering and Industrial Coatings?
What are the days and times when Production Prep: Dance/Light: VAR Stage Management D class is held?
What is the name of the program that Funded under our 2022 Call for ERPs, this year-long initiative will have Instituto de Filosofia (Universidade do Porto) and the Software & Societal Systems Department at CMU as partners?
What is the date of the Western PA Invitational in December?
 What is the potential impact of OCR technologies mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the student-athlete who was named as the CMU Student-Athlete of the Week for Feb. 19 - Feb. 25?
 According to CxG, how is meaning encoded?
Who are the authors of this text?
What kind of supplemental offerings does the Student Academic Success team provide?
 How did D50 change with increasing the degree of internal mixing of particles?
What high school did Wenna Zhang attend before joining Carnegie Mellon University?
How many classes are there in total for Production Prep:Penelope?
What is the name of the event on February 27th at Bucknell University?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
What are Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study 1-24 A and Strauss in the text?
What are the course codes and their respective titles for the courses offered on Monday to Friday from 8:00 AM to 9:30 PM?
What did Allen Newell say about institutional growth?
In which room are the first two classes held?
 What was the performance of the FLAREdirect method in the experimental results?
When and where does Acting I take place in PCA 321?
What are the days and times for the Production Prep class taught by Mr. Burns?
What are the names of the two courses that start with 'Special Topics'?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering?
What is the title of the first undergraduate research project mentioned in the text?
 What specialized decoding strategies are designed for the two CO problems studied in the paper?
Is there a specific policy for gestational and parental accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title of the second class listed after the first one?
Who should be contacted in case of an emergency at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does Budnik's Electronic Devices and Analog Circuits class take place?
What are the days, times, and locations of all classes mentioned in the text?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 9:00 AM to 9:50 AM in room WEH 8220?
Who are the instructors for independent studies at various times and locations in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is Jason Togyer and how can one contact him?
What are the names of the people involved in each event?
What program does this graduate student handbook belong to?
Where does Sunny Tang come from?
 What was the maximum improvement in memory use achieved by applying the proposed approach to current versions of software?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Friday at 4:00 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the class 'Introduction to Deep Learning and Pattern Recognition for Computer Vision' held?
Who is the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Harp D in Foundations of Pedagogy in Music Education?
When and where does Introduction to Japanese Language and Culture take place?
When and where will 'H&SS Senior Honors Thesis I' be held?
 What are some key contributions of the paper regarding AudioGPT?
 What is the name of the function in the text?
What are the names of the locations where Major Studio (Violin) 9.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania takes place?
What are the days and times of the third class for Financial and Managerial Accounting II in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the phone number to obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the title of the course taught by Larocca 57192?
What happens to other courses that students take from accredited institutions?
When does the application period for Fall 2024 open?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
 What are the Pareto fronts and where can they be found?
How many offices are mentioned under 'Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety'?
How many reactions were there on the recent post about providing meals for those in need according to Facebook?
What is the consequence for a second AIV infraction in MCDS?
What is the name of the thesis mentioned in the second line?
Who should media inquiries about LTI be directed to?
What is the win-loss percentage for the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
What is the course title for Wu's class?
Who is the instructor for the Introduction to Competitive Pokemon course?
Who are the sponsors of this publication?
What are the names of all courses listed in this text that start with the letter 'C'?
 How are unstable text messages handled in the revision mode of the text processing component?
Who are the authors of the courses listed under Instructor TBA 67391?
What services does the University Center provide for students?
Who is the instructor for Dietrich Introductory Seminar: College & University Success Strategies offered at different times?
 What are some of the emotion categories used for annotation in the dialogues mentioned in the text?
What is the tone of this article according to you?
What are the days and times when 'The Holocaust in History & Culture' class is held?
What is the name of the building where Meyer teachs?
When did Women's Cross Country receive their sixth straight bid to NCAA Championships?
What is the purpose of LTI Academic Policies?
What are the locations of the two classrooms mentioned in the text where Dietrich Introductory Seminar: College & University Success Strategies is being held?
What is the name of the award given to recognize research excellence at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
How can one stay updated with news and events related to this institution?
What is the title of Casale's course that will be taught at SH 234?
What are the days and times of the 'Regulation of Internet Edge Platforms' course?
What are Graham Neubig's research interests?
What is the course code for B S?
 What is the training data in this context?
What are some examples of associations between natural and formal languages that the researcher has worked extensively on?
Who are the instructors for independent study 1-12 in Mccarthy B?
What is the location and time of Christopherson's class?
What is the name of the award given to recognize research excellence at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
What services does CMU offer for transportation?
What is the purpose of GSA at CMU?
Which breadth course has 16 credits according to this text?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's goal regarding diversity and inclusion?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text? (Part 2)
What is the purpose of joining an industry consortium according to the text?
What is the duration of independent study course 95918?
 How many binary input pairs were executed in total for the generated programs?
What are the days and times of 'Applied Information Assurance' course?
What is the phone number of the institute mentioned in the text?
How often are these evaluations conducted?
What are the instructors for Special Topics in Hispanic Studies and Senior Seminar in Modern Languages?
How are LTI courses defined in this handbook?
Where is Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems taught?
 How many syndromes mentioned in the text have implicated genes that do not appear in the two levels of voice chains shown?
 How is system-level accuracy calculated in metric meta-evaluation?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Wojciechowski?
 Why is caution needed when interpreting the study results?
What are the different types of programs offered by filiates?
Where is Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania located?
Where and when is Sousa's class?
What are the names of the instructors for Beginning Tennis A4?
Which athlete has been on this team for the longest period of time according to the roster?
How many units does each of these two courses count towards?
 What additional score related to the output length is mentioned as a heuristic approach?
Where is Doha, Qatar Seitkaliyev teaching his course from?
 How do probabilistic neural NPC solvers tackle instance problem s?
What is the location of Large-Scale Computing in Data Science 12.0 A TR 02:00PM 03:20PM?
 What does the depolarization ratio indicate about the aerosol particles?
In what room is Rehearsal and Performance III: VAR Macbeth class held?
What is the purpose of the Entrepreneurial Research Initiatives at this institution?
 What is used as the base listener in PICL?
How many faculty members must attend an LTI PhD student's presentation?
Who is teaching Advanced Digital Sculpture?
What is the location of the 9:00 AM class on Monday?
Who teaches the Naval Ship Systems II-Weapons course?
What is the URL for the Office of International Education (OIE) website?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered at POS 146 on Thursday morning?
Is there any mention of internships in the program?
What is the location of Teaching Apprenticeship - Japanese B?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
What is the location of the Advanced Music Studies Studios mentioned in the text?
What is not permitted in the Fitness Center according to the posted rules?
What is the course code for Studies in Latin American Literature and Culture?
 What does Pentathlon build upon in terms of established software?
What are the class names and instructors for the classes listed in the schedule?
What is the class location for each of the classes listed in this schedule?
What is the website link provided by the text where students can find complete financial aid information?
When does Materials Science & Engineering 27100 take place?
Where can students find information about Language Support Orientation?
 What values did (D75 − D25)/D50 vary from for ammonium sulfate calibration measurements?
What are the days and times when Mcgowan is teaching Hot Glass II at OFF CAMPUS Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Internship in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the time and location of Mobile Web Design & Development course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What caused the pollutants to gradually clear in Beijing on February 13-14?
What does the text suggest should happen if a student cannot meet academic standards?
What is the purpose of ID Cards at the university?
 What does ASR Error Rate stand for?
 How did researchers attempt to improve the robustness of Neural Machine Translation models?
 What is the main focus of Figure 12?
What are the circumstances under which a graduate student can obtain early degree certification?
What are the days and times of the Carnegie Scenic class?
Who teaches Series A1 and B1?
What is the title of the course being held at HL A10 from 12:30PM to 05:30PM on Friday?
What high school did Nathan Yao attend?
How many classes are listed in this schedule?
What are the standards of personal conduct expected from Carnegie Mellon students?
What are the class timings for Media Design L?
What is the course name and time of the class held in room MM211 on Tuesday at 10:30 AM?
What are the advantages of using CAPTCHAs according to the text?
What are the two possible focuses of MLT thesis research project?
What does SIEWIOREK suggest is missing at CMU?
What is the date of the softball game between Brandeis and Carnegie Mellon?
What is Academic Integrity according to the handbook?
What did people inside and outside CMU's CS department do with Hitech?
How did the new representation by Clarke and McMillan improve upon early model checkers?
What are the requirements for students who have attended multiple universities?
What are the names of the teachers and their respective classrooms in Pittsburgh?
When is Experimental Writing class held?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 1:00 PM?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What event does Yitian Zhang participate in?
Can you identify the two pieces of information provided by the author?
When does Electronic, Magnetic, and Optical Properties take place?
What role did Dr. Newell play at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors listed in this text?
In which page of the handbook is the information located?
What are the courses taught by Instructor TBA for Statistical Computing 36350?
What is the source of small research grant funds provided by Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) and Provost’s Office?
Which team won the UAA Indoor Championships?
 What optimizer was used for training all models?
 According to recent studies mentioned in the text, what has been suggested about ChatGPT annotation compared to Amazon crowd-sourced workers?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 09:00AM on Monday and Wednesday in PCA 305?
Where does the instructor teach for the 'Rehearsal and Performance IV' course on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings from 5:20 PM to 6:20 PM?
Where and when does Advanced Research in Hispanic Language & Culture take place?
What are the course codes for User-Centered Research and Evaluation courses?
What information will be shared by Google when signing in to Adobe Acrobat for Google Drive?
 What was one of the intentions behind introducing the MOSAIC framework?
What are the three main activities of Queer Athlete and Ally Collective (QAAC)?
Who should be contacted in case of an emergency at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the common outcome of fine-tuning MAViL on AudioSet-2M?
 Who evaluated the story generation in the text?
What does MCDS stand for according to the text?
 What does Precision@k measure in the evaluation?
What are the locations of the two classes that start at 10:30 AM?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
What are the class codes for Computer Technology in Music Education and Raponi Music Education Composition Concert?
 What improvements did the authors adopt from the literature to enhance the performance of the model?
When was this research article published?
Who is Berntsen?
What was the result of the Carnegie Mellon Invitational for the women's cross-country team?
What should MCDS students do if they have a job interview during their final semester?
 What is the focus of the Quality-of-Life Assessment after Major Extremity Trauma in the presentation by Tyner et al. at MHSRS?
 How does Unlimiformer enable processing input sequences of up to 500k tokens?
What is the title of lecture by Durschmid?
How often can students consult at most one day per seven-day week with the Program Director's consent?
What does it mean when Carnegie Mellon says 'conceptual sources'?
Who are the instructors for Major Studio (Clarinet) and Literature and Repertoire: Brass at DNM?
Who issues a handbook to inform graduate students about their program requirements and procedures?
What is the purpose of the new Highmark Center?
Who are the instructors for the 10:00 AM class on Monday?
Where is the webpage with instructions about ordering transcripts located at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is Microelectromechanical Systems held and what days and times is it scheduled?
How long does the MLT program last?
When does Interpreting Global Texts & Cultures take place?
What is a great strength of the model checking approach?
When is the Women's Tennis match against Kenyon scheduled to start?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What is the name of the recital that takes place at Instructor TBA H?
What are the main goals of the cheerleading program?
What can students do if they are facing academic challenges?
Who are the instructors for the 'Design Thesis Practicum: Lighting Thesis' course?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Engineering Optimization and A/B Testing, Design, and Analysis?
In which room is the 'Engineering Data Intensive Scalable Systems' session held?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching Literature and Repertoire classes at different times?
Who is the instructor for this course?
What is Alexander Waibel's office location?
 According to the text, what is one of the paramount challenges of NLP today?
What time does Senior Thesis 3-18 take place?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
Where can a student find more information about the Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where is the lecture 'From CMU to Dropbox to the Future' held?
Where does Computational Perception take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the Wettergreen SCS Interdisciplinary workshop located?
What are the class timings for Advanced SM:Actors Equity?
What are the days and times for the classes listed in the schedule?
What is the responsibility of the department offering an outside course when it comes to grading?
What are the names of the two events that Stebbins has scheduled?
When does Zajdel teach Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering?
What is the purpose of the CMU Alert mentioned in the text?
 How can end users easily reset the website environment to its initial state?
 What hyperparameters were tested during training?
Who are the instructors for the 'Elective Studio (Piano)', 'Elective Studio (Harp)', and 'Elective Studio (Violin)' classes?
How many pages are there in total for the document?
What are the days and times that Dietrich College Interdisciplinary Senior Honors Thesis II is offered?
What are the four sections in CMU's Academic Policies?
 What framework was introduced to handle the typological diversity of many languages?
Where and when does Stage Management Seminar take place?
 How do the researchers evaluate the quality of empathic similarity predictions?
 What is the target group exposure γ∗ used to measure?
What is the purpose of The HUB Assistant Directors at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is one of the main challenges faced by speech-to-text (ST) systems?
What services does the Counseling & Psychological Services provide to students?
What are the class names and locations for Carlock's third classes?
 What percentage of cases with level-1 voice chains had severe symptoms?
What kind of stories did Rick Rashid write?
What are some ways Carnegie Mellon University disseminates knowledge?
Where is the Practicum 48700 located?
 In what year was the article published?
What instrument does Dee specialize in at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What did Simon and Newell push for a broader perception of what computer science was going to be about?
What does PCHE stand for?
Who are the instructors for this course in Doha, Qatar?
What is the purpose of the balcony added to Carnegie Mellon University's swimming and diving facility in 2015?
Where is Cranor's class located?
Who are encouraged to bookmark The WORD according to the given text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Space and Mobilities?
Where does the Applied Machine Learning class take place?
 How many trainable parameters are there in the largest GLoRA model configuration?
What is the purpose of Graduate Student Assembly's strategic plan?
What are the two courses being offered by instructor Shea in this schedule?
What is the title of the handbook?
How can students access information about accommodations for disabilities provided by the university?
What is the title of the Advanced Undergraduate Research course?
What does DNM stand for in the context of the independent studies?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in this schedule?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
How can students access professional assistance in finding needed materials at the University Libraries?
What is the name of the course taught by Brasier in Developmental Biology and Human Health?
What is the course code of the Biology for Life Special Topics Micro?
What is the course code for Postwar Japan’s Subculture: Voices from Within and Without?
Who is the academic advisor for Dhruv Arya?
Who are the students enrolled in the Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
What are the class times for Production Management with Mr. Burns?
What are the dates and times of Governance 12.0 A T 06:30PM 09:20PM HBH 2008?
What is the name of the center mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Applied Python for Engineers'?
 What is the purpose of embedding aggregation in PointDR?
What are the names of the three intermediate studio courses offered in this schedule?
What is the purpose of the Policy Against Retaliation mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes and titles of Vuocolo's classes?
What happens if an applicant submits an incomplete application to Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What is the name of the instructor leading the Lighting Design I session for Love and Money?
What happens if an LTI student does not make satisfactory progress each semester?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What happens when a graduate student completes all degree requirements in less than the standard length of time?
What is the schedule for the course 'Want to be a Mother Lighting Design'?
What are the names of the teachers who will be teaching Acting II, Orchestration II and Piano Pedagogy IV?
What are the procedures for handling academic integrity violations according to MCDS?
What are the course codes for Lighting Design for Directors and Acting?
What is an Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) deemed as?
Who is Mona Diab and what does she aim to do as the new LTI Director at CMU?
Who is the instructor of Neurobiology of Disease (Biological Sciences 03133)?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the course names, instructors and timings for Environmental Life Cycle Assessment and Market Engineering and Applications?
Where is the institute located?
Where is Tech Entrepreneurship and Innovation course held?
What are the names of the instructors for Machine Learning in Practice?
What are the days and times for Laboratory I: Introduction to Chemical Analysis A section?
Who are the authors that have 'P' in their last names?
What is the appeal process for academic actions at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code and title of the Acting for Leadership and Communication course offered on Monday, Wednesday from 3:30 PM to 4:50 PM?
When and where does Twedt teach 'News Writing'?
Who are the authors mentioned in the text along with their respective works and locations (in alphabetical order)?
What is the name of the event that took place on Fri, Feb/17?
What is the name of Woodruff and Anderson's course on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday?
What are the days and times of Wilder's Intermediate Deep Learning course?
What are the days and times of B's schedule?
What are the topics covered in the Environments Studio II course?
Who is the instructor for Advanced SM: Actors Equity?
What are the dates and times for Carnegie Scenic class in Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Apr/15 at 12:30 p.m.?
What are Jamie Callan's research interests?
What is the cost of applying to a program before the early deadline?
 What is the genotype of red Schisandra?
What are the days and times for Badminton: 3.0 course?
Who teaches the 'How to Write Fast Code II' class that starts at 9:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday in San Jose, California?
 What is the flickering rate defined as in the text?
Which instrument did Berntsen play in Major Studio?
What is the course code for Advanced Solfege IV?
Who is the course coordinator for this program?
How does a graduate student's academic program certify their degree?
In what room is Geology held at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the subjects of study for each author listed in this text?
What are the names of the instructors for Elective Studio (Oboe), Elective Studio (Clarinet), and Elective Studio (Bassoon)?
What policy does the text mention that CMU has against retaliation?
Who teaches Advanced DP3: Painting - Reverence And Representation in Advanced DP3: Painting - Lump, Clump, Nestle, Merge: Drawing Complexity?
What are the course codes and titles for the classes that start at TBA on Monday?
What is the title of the class that starts at 4:00 PM in TEP 4219 with course code '47834'?
 What do adapters do in the context of incremental data retraining?
What is the course title of lecture F?
What should students do if they are engaged in course work?
When does Digital Photography I take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Differential and Integral Calculus on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
Who can contact the Language Technologies Institute according to the given information?
Who instructs PR 53608 at Visual Story in Theme Park Design?
What is the purpose of Duolingo users?
How many cities are mentioned in the text?
What is Maggie Popovich's role in the university's athletics department?
Under what section does it talk about withdrawal of a degree?
 Who were the descendants of the Lake family?
How do contributions to the Tartan Fund help Carnegie Mellon Athletics?
Who teaches Graduate Teaching II at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course under the course code 10335?
What are the course codes for the courses offered on Thursday at Rohrbach Hall?
What are the days of the week when each course is offered?
What are the time slots for Mr. Burns: Production Management and TBA E?
Where is the Parking and Transportation Services office located?
 What is the purpose of stirrup reinforcement in concrete components?
Are all graduate courses offered by the Language Technologies Institute considered qualifying courses?
 Which type of dataset is referred to in Figure 7 for the 2-shot prompting examples?
Where can students find information about parking at Carnegie Mellon?
Who was the 1977 Alberta chess champion?
In what year did Independent Study 3-27 take place?
What are the dates and times of the Lighting Prodcution session for Love and Money?
What is the location of the first meeting between Erdmann and Kaynar in this text?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
What is the contact information for the Office for Institutional Equity and Title IX?
What is the purpose of the Assumption of Risk & General Release forms at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Introduction to Differential Equations course?
What is the course code for Helin's Intermediate Spanish class?
What is the course code for all courses taught by Anderson?
What is the main topic of the article posted on January 8?
How many teams participated in the UAA Championships?
Who are the instructors for Johnston's Independent Study in History?
Where does the 'Elective Studio (Jazz Piano II Class)' take place?
How many courses can students take through the PCHE and Cross-registration program?
How does Berliner describe the difficulty of winning at chess?
What is an overview of LTI PhD degree requirements?
 What type of models are being considered towards building general-purpose robots?
What are Emma Brunskill's research interests?
What are some key points discussed in the text?
 What is the average SEScore for the Other language group?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's role in serving changing needs of society?
When and where does Dramaturgy Forum take place on Fridays?
When does Translation Technologies take place?
 What is the significance of Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) in Information Retrieval (IR) models?
What is the location of Caulkins' independent study in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the courses that teach Scenic Design and Costume Design?
What is the course code for Materials Science and Engineering Teaching Internship?
What event will take place on 15th October, from 4:30 PM to 6:30 PM?
 What model is the Wavlab submission based on?
Where can additional information about SafeWalk be found?
What is the location of Carlisle 57599 Senior Recital?
What is the consequence of failing to meet all specified conditions in an N-1 letter?
Where are they going for Spring Break?
Who are the authors for Carlisle, 57610 Internship 3-36 A4?
 What is a limitation of the current Track module in the system design?
What type of information does this handbook contain?
 What is the minimum time taken by SO-GI in hours?
Where and at what time is Hansen, Merrell's Advanced ETB: Digitally Mediated Performance class held?
 How does tensor decomposition help in reducing the model size?
What are the names of the courses being offered in Production Prep that start with 'Production Prep'?
What are the course codes and instructors for Zacharias's classes?
Where can students find The Carnegie Mellon Code?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Advanced Probability & Statistics for Engineers?
What does each letter represent in the author names?
 How is success computed in the task?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C102 from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM on Monday?
What is the title of Sandholm's D course?
What should be considered when giving a serious warning to a struggling student?
 What type of study design was used in the research?
How can language technologies be based when there is insufficient time or data to build an NLP system?
Where and when does Brownlee's Sound Forum class take place?
Who are the instructors for Van Hoesen, Shields DA and Cardenes DB?
What is the name of the video that has been viewed the most on this channel?
What are the days and times of the course 'Piano Pedagogy III'?
Who are the instructors who teach EA and EC in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times when Performance for Composers classes are held?
What are the time slots for External Projects Scenic Design?
What is the role of faculty members at MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the names of the instructors for Instructor TBA 47998 and Instructor TBA 47997?
Where can students find information about the PhD Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the minimum grade required for a course to be counted as satisfying a degree requirement?
What is the name of the graduate student handbook?
What is the course title for Gordon's class?
 What is query rewriting?
 Which regions besides the EMA locations are ranked as important in the text?
What is the course title of Park's Modern Techniques in Uncertainty Quantification class?
What is the contact information for the SCS Help Center?
How many weeks of time can gestational parents take off under the Parental Accommodation?
What is the minimum GPA required for all applications to the School of Computer Science?
What happens if there is falsification of work upon which a degree was based?
When and where is the Reading and Research 1-48 class held?
 What does the study find about the overlap of figurative expressions between languages?
 What does α represent in the multitask loss equation?
What is the purpose of the capstone planning seminar?
What did CMU researchers develop in 1983 for better computer use?
 How did Baevski et al. (2021) improve UASR performance in multiple languages?
Who is responsible for making arrangements regarding student health insurance?
Who teaches Advanced Pipeline Topics for Film and Game Art?
What are the days and times for Perception class?
Who teaches Special Topics Russian Studies?
How many independent study courses are taught by Sooriamurthi?
Where is Costume Production Thesis A being held?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: Macbeth: Costume Design class?
Where can students find more information about MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the dates and times of the External Projects classes that focus on Media?
What is the title of the course taught by Professor Fries?
 What was the approach presented in the paper to explore the voice-face correlation?
 What language models were used in the study?
What instruments are taught at Premo Advanced Music Studies Studio?
What are the three classes being taught by Jafry O'Connor on the given date?
What is the name of the person who will be teaching Scenic Design?
Is this calendar feed for a specific sport or sports team?
Which instructors have 'Premo' as their last name?
What are some recent achievements mentioned in the text?
Where is Carnegie Mellon University located?
What are the names of the courses offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that have a duration of 3-9 A TBA DNM DNM?
Are there any other libraries open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
Where does Deluca teach his/her class?
Where and when was the recital held?
Who are the instructors for independent studies at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh?
Which city did the second team play for?
 What is the spatial embedding dimension set to in the six-channel case as detailed in the text?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on MW from 12:00 PM to 1:50 PM in TEP 2119?
What is the date of the UAA Championships in Chicago?
Where is Rose's class located?
What are the days and times for Black and White Photography I in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for HBH 2008 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the assistant professor of Natural Language Processing at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the professors teaching the courses mentioned in this text?
 What effort was made to redact Personally Identifiable Information (PII) from The Stack?
Which teacher has two classes on Monday and Thursday?
What can students do to obtain a copy of the annual campus security and fire safety report?
When did the article about Men's Basketball - Tartans Win Thriller at Brandeis, 80-77 take place?
How many student-athletes recorded a 4.0 grade-point average (GPA) at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What does the text state about the performance of using a large number of objects in the prompt?
On which page can someone find the contact information of Language Technologies Institute?
 How is the labeled dataset for semi-supervised learning constructed?
 What does the critical crack propagation angle indicate?
When does Special Topics: Maker Series: Intro to Welding start and end?
What is the course code for Special Topics in French & Francophone Studies taught by Dubreil?
 When was the Xbox One video game console released in Australia?
What are the courses offered on Friday at 09:00 AM?
 What does the Specter algorithm employ for computing textual similarities between submissions?
Who is the author of 'The Kiltie Band'?
When does Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): VAR Directing take place?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
What does the author think about Shakespeare's writing style and spelling?
In what room does Hong A M teach his class?
Where is Cox-Boyd located?
What is the policy regarding changing advisors in SCS?
What is the subject taught by Cafasso O?
What is the purpose of supporting LGBTQIA+ individuals according to Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can students find more details about the SCS Master's Admissions page requirements?
What is the name of each instructor?
What is the name of the book written by Trotter B?
What should students do if they have not found an advisor after one month in the program?
Who are the instructors for Dealmeida KA and Shields, Rusinek KB?
 Why is training large-scale multi-modal speech processing systems more challenging than NLP systems?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What is the course code and title of the Business Communications course offered by Richards?
Who is the Leonardo Associate Professor of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How is the uncertainty of the predicted 𝑘-th AM calibrated?
What are the names of all courses that start with 'Physics-Based Rendering', 'Real-Time Graphics', 'Neural Computation'?
What are the main areas of research that LTI faculty and students investigate?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What can a student do if they believe that the amendment request was not resolved satisfactorily?
 What is one challenge that users face in determining the total token count in a model?
What should be considered by students who want to complete their graduate program in a shorter period than the standard length?
 How is popularity defined in the methodology presented in the text?
What is the purpose of determining if early degree certification is allowed under what circumstances?
 During which episode did Zhu et al. study the PM2.5 vertical variation?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor Li and what are its credits?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this page?
How does the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs work with colleges and departments at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who developed practical encoding schemes that are difficult to break in 2012?
What is the course title of Vania Franko's class?
What is the name of the office that handles ethical concerns within the university?
When does Professor Sioshansi's 'Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence for Engineers: 12.0' class take place?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:30PM on Monday and Wednesday in PCA 305?
What is mentioned in section 1.2 of the handbook?
Which authors are listed together on line 14?
When is Graduate Directing: Thesis 6.0 being held?
Where was Porter Hall located in CMU?
Where is the information about MIIS Graduate Student Handbook located?
What kind of computers are available for MS students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are some key resources provided by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
Where did Reilly and Nair attend their respective DNM courses?
 What types of features did not significantly improve the performance of the hedge classification model?
What is the location of the event mentioned in the given text?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Apr/01 at 9:00 a.m.?
Who did Carnegie Mellon play against in Softball on March 23rd, at what time?
What is the location of the Software Engineering Graduate Reading & Research course?
When and where will the Computer Technology in Music Education class be held?
What is the name of the building where Watson I teaches?
 What observation is made about low-resource relations in the text?
What should an applicant do if they don't see their program or organization in the list provided by SCS Graduate Application?
 What is depicted in Figure 12 of the text?
What are the days and times of the classes listed in the schedule?
How can student-athletes get involved with The Plaidvocates program?
Is there a specific date for the start of the academic year 2022-2023 according to this handbook?
How does a student demonstrate proficiency in programming?
Where is the class of Feinberg and Cohen-Karni held?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two courses that start at 09:00AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
Who are the instructors for the Master's degree course?
What is the academic program of Aishwarya Agrawal?
What is the purpose of making a draft of the thesis document available online prior to the dissertation defense?
What are the names of the two professors teaching IDeATe: Experimental Sound Synthesis?
When and where does lecture for Signals and Systems take place?
 Explain the difference in aerosol extinction coefficient trends between winter and other seasons in Beijing.
What is the policy for sharing coursework between more than one CMU degree?
What is discussed in subsection 3.3.10 of the text regarding MCDS degrees?
 What is the purpose of developing new PRO items according to the text?
Where are the instructors from at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times of the Brown course?
What is the maximum amount of travel funding available for students who have no project funding?
 What were the four object properties encapsulated in the 2D unified representations?
 Which machine learning model outperformed others in the hedge classification task and why?
 What challenge arises when training TTS systems on real-world speech compared to reading speech?
What is the procedure for transferring out of a PhD program at Carnegie Mellon?
Where can students find information about The Word and University resources mentioned in section 1.3?
 How many measurements of transcription speed were collected for quantitative analysis?
Why is it important for students to keep their local address up-to-date on SIO?
Who teaches the Production Prep: New Works: VAR Directing class?
What does the Student Health Insurance Program administered by UHS offer?
What are the locations and times of Sakr and Ganger's classes?
 What percentage of known improvements did GIDroid re-discover when tested against ChatGPT4?
What is the name of the course that starts on Monday, Wednesday at 12:30 PM in POS 152 taught by Arana?
What were some of Dr. Newell's leadership roles?
How does the faculty evaluate a student's academic progress at the end of each semester?
In which room is 'Introduction to Music Cognition Research' held?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by instructor Burke?
Who are Syeda Akter and Siddhant Arora?
What is the location of the Mathematics Colloquium?
What are the instructors' names for both courses?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Piano Maintenance)?
What are the course codes for the Collaborative Project in Music Entrepreneurship and Shaping Time in Performance?
 What are the results of comparing revision mode to fixed mode in terms of BLEU score and latency?
Where is Callan located?
Who are the instructors for Reasoning with Data: 9.0?
Who teaches the Scenic Design class?
 What do the gate probability distributions represent at the l-th layer?
Where is the text set?
What are the university's policies regarding transfer courses according to the handbook?
What is the name of the instructor for the Theory and Design of Writing Instruction course that starts at 12:00 PM on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What institutions partially supported the work described in the text?
What is the course name, instructor, and credit hours for the class held on Wednesday at 12:00 PM?
 What are the two types of datasets used for comparison in the experiment results in Figure 3 for GBML-based data pruning?
What time does the Costume Crafts: Fabric Modification class start at?
How can Carnegie Mellon University students access the university’s health care services?
 How is the quality of the nearest-neighbors search affected in Unlimiformer?
 How was the training performed for the Jais-chat 13B model?
What are the positions or titles of each person in alphabetical order?
What was the outcome of the Tartans' performance at the UAA Championships on February 17, 2024?
 What is the main topic of Figure 2?
When does the Seminar on Homotopy Type Theory take place?
Who are they playing against on Friday 8th?
What is the instrument focus of the fifth music studies studio mentioned in the text?
What is the LTI PhD/MLT Graduate Application Support Program?
 What is the total number of languages mentioned in the data for Atlantic-Congo and Afro-Asiatic language families combined?
What are the days and times of all the classes in this text?
 What key assumptions are made in formulating the one-mass body-cover model for vocal folds?
What is the course title of lecture 2 in Algorithms and Advanced Data Structures?
What is ORIC's role in responsible conduct of research?
 What method achieves an F1 score range of 0.261 to 0.559 depending on the threshold used?
What are the alumni chapter initiatives for this institution?
What is the name of the instructor who taught Integral Calculus to students in Doha, Qatar?
What is the significance of surface engineering in industrial coatings?
What are the services related to Dining provided by the company?
What are the topics of the courses held in room TEP 5222 at 12:00 PM?
What are the names of the two courses being offered by Shackleford in PH A19C at 2:00 PM on Mondays and Wednesdays?
 What analysis tools are provided to facilitate a more comprehensive analysis of the benchmark?
What are the names of the courses offered by Stadelmeier at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the classrooms where Harmony II and Introduction to Music Technology (self-paced) take place?
What is the process to complete a Master’s Degree enroute to a PhD at LTI?
What kind of activities are allowed in the dive pool at Carnegie Mellon University's swimming and diving facility?
What were researchers like Claude Shannon concerned about regarding brute-force methods?
What should I do if I have taken the GRE test more than once?
What are the names of Budnik's classes in SH 236?
Can I borrow a school instrument?
 How many oysters can you see in the photo?
What is the course name for A MW 03:30PM - 04:50PM?
What is the name of the course held at 09:30AM on Monday through Friday starting from August 31st, taught by Instructor TBA?
What is the course called for directing?
What is the name of the event that took place on Fri, Feb/10?
 How was the ASR model adapted for the MT model in terms of casing/punctuation restoration?
 Why is there a tradeoff between downsampling rate and batch size in the model?
What is the name of the instructor for Teaching Apprenticeship - Japanese B?
Can suspended students take courses elsewhere?
What is the purpose of the Academic Calendar at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is the search form located on this website?
What are some of the components available in CTAT for creating interactive elements?
What are the days and times when course 11441 is offered?
Why were the decisions made by Mellon College of Science not always matching with the needs of Computer Science?
What is the date and time of the Washington & Jefferson Diving Invitational?
 What is the purpose of the 2-pass cascaded encoder described in the text?
 What algorithm was used as the decoding algorithm during training?
What is the name of the center that focuses on student success at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the units for BME PhD Research- Summer II (Biomedical Engineering 42991)?
 What are some approaches for learning rate control in training schedules?
 Which model outperformed the mask-based MVDR beamformer on the spatialized WSJ0-2mix?
 What are some reasons why collecting precise labels for data can be difficult?
What is the focus of Evidence Based Teaching in STEM?
Who is the Assistant Coordinator of Recreation?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered at POS 146 on Wednesday evening?
What does it mean when events are marked in bold in the Home section?
What are the days and times when the course 'Production Prep: TBA 1: Stage Management D' is held?
 What is the difference in parameters between the MHA model and the MQA model?
What are the names of the classes that meet on different days for 'Penelope'?
What is the location of Aylmer's advanced music studies studio?
What social media platforms can be used to share information about ADPI student-athletes at Carnegie Mellon?
 How does the use of a separate ST token for each target language benefit translation?
What are the names of the classes taught by Erdmann in this schedule?
When does Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): VAR Directing take place on Saturday?
When did the department honor top academic athletes at an annual celebration?
What is the statute of limitations according to this text?
What is the name of the course taught by Harding GA?
What is the time schedule of Production Prep: Lonely Planet for each day?
What is PROPEL: 6.0 about and when does it take place?
Where does Bryan Burtner work?
 When is the absolute minimum difference in BC column concentration recorded between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval?
What is the purpose of the annual security and fire safety report provided by the University Police Department?
 What is the relationship between albumin to globulin ratio (AGR) and risk of death as AGR increased by 1 unit?
Who can contact the Language Technologies Institute according to the given information?
What is the course title of Franko's class?
What are the instructors of the courses held in room TEP 5222 at 12:25 PM?
Who are the instructors for Reading and Research in Computational Neuroscience?
What are the days and times when 'Production Prep: Lorca: Dramaturgy' is offered?
 What is the mean Pearson value in the score prediction prompt?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the course codes for 'Intro to Stained Glass' and 'Flame 2: The Next Step'?
What are the last names of each person in alphabetical order?
Who is the instructor for Computing @ Carnegie Mellon: 3.0 B1?
What event is happening on Thursday, Oct. 9th in the School of Computer Science?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What are the policies regarding 'Grandfather' policy in LTI Academic Policies?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA on Wednesdays from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
Where should I mail my transcripts and how many should I send?
 What is the hidden dimension H in each TAC module?
What position does Jasmine Chao play?
What was the topic discussed during the 'SCS25: Robotics at the Tipping Point' panel discussion?
 How many epochs were run for meta learning with SAMA for ImageNet-1k and CIFAR-10 respectively?
 What does the text suggest would be straightforward to extend the methods to support?
What is the name of the handbook that applies to the LTI Ph.D.?
 What does Figure 8 in the text illustrate?
What are the dates and times of the Production Prep sessions for Dance/Light?
 What method is used for stability detection and output processing in the speech processing component?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: A Little Night Music?
What does 'Block' refer to according to the given text?
What is the location of Crary's class?
What is the name of the class that teaches about self-producing for theater artists?
What are the days and times for Independent Study Chemistry held in DNM, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the class held on Tuesday and Thursday from 09:30 AM to 11:50 AM in room 172, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors for each department's production prep sessions?
 What is discussed in §2 of the text?
How many equivalent graduate courses from another institution can be permitted to satisfy one Ph.D. course requirement?
What services does the University Libraries offer?
How many games are mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the teachers listed under 'W' and 'X'?
Where did the Carnegie Mellon Invitational take place?
When and where does Acting for Management take place?
What are the names of the three people mentioned in this text?
Where is Mani teaching the MSBA Experiential Learning courses?
Where does Krishnaswami teach?
 What is the limitation mentioned in the study due to budget constraints?
How many remote courses can be counted towards the 36 units used to satisfy full-time enrollment at MCDS?
What are the research areas of Graham Neubig?
Which social media platforms does Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science have accounts on?
What is the name of the person who will be teaching Collaborative Piano V class?
Where is the Mental training for peak performance course held, and at what time?
Is it possible to work on a Ph.D. part time?
What are the class timings of the 'Vulnerability Assessment and Testing' course?
What are some areas where Reddy and his colleagues have made seminal contributions?
What is the topic of the article?
On what day and time does Virtue F's class start at WEH 5310 according to the schedule?
What are the two courses offered by Practicum in Biomedical Engineering?
What does the text want to convey through 'world-changing science' phrase?
How does GSA fund its activities?
 What is the range of utterance duration in the dataset?
 How is the rank of the Tucker decomposition calculated?
 What algorithm relies on general-purpose Embeddings from Language Models to compute textual similarities between submissions and reviewers’ past papers?
What are the days and times for Lecture 4 of Application Design and Development?
What are the days and times when the 'Robot Localization and Mapping' course is held?
What are the names of the speakers for the course 'B W'?
What are the three production prep courses being offered in this schedule?
What is the name of the course taught by Addepalli (98097) at 7:00 PM on Friday?
 What is the yield strength of the steel wire strand used in the experiments?
What is the course name and instructor for Computer Science 15455?
What is the course code and instructor for the New Venture Creation course?
What are the days and times that the course '54797 VMD Systems Studio: 9.0 VMD Systems Studio A' is held?
What is the location of the study abroad course?
How many pages are dedicated to safeguarding educational equity in this text?
What is the title of the paper that explains how to break a simple CAPTCHA for which character segmentation is easy?
What are Anatole Gershman's research areas?
Where did the 2023 Tartans Men's Soccer team play their last away game?
What were some advantages of Mach compared to UNIX?
Who is teaching the Independent Study for Cline, Beckwith at 02:00PM and 04:50PM?
What is the course name of the class held in PCA 231 on Tuesday and Thursday?
What happens if an application for the MCDS program is submitted after the early deadline?
What is the name of the course taught by Brown at TR 05:00PM 06:20PM TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What are some of the types of algorithms supported in OpenMatch-v2 for domain adaptation?
 How does the dataset enable research into multilingual speech translation under realistic conditions?
What are the days and times when Biegler teaches his/her classes?
What is the name of the course taught by Stragar at A3 TR 09:30AM - 10:50AM and Cycling Core MWF 09:00AM - 09:50AM?
What is the course name for class that starts at 08:00AM on Tuesday in DH A302?
What is the website link provided by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
What is the course code of the course taught by Professor Smith and Weber?
When does Cognitive Psychology: 9.0 take place?
On what date did Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete of the Week get recognized?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for classes HBH 1006, Goranson D2, and Rao F?
What is the maximum time a student has to complete all requirements for a master's degree according to the Master’s Students Statute of Limitations?
 How is the offensiveness of a statement categorized?
What is full-time employment?
What are the names of the two classes that meet in the afternoon at Wean Hall?
What is the course code for Jazz Instrumental Ensemble: Jazz Orchestra?
What are the days and times of Advanced Topics in Stage Management I: Communication class?
Where do these three classes take place at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the teachers teaching 'Introduction to Greek Mythology', 'Beyond Physical: The Psychology of Athletes', and 'Steep by Steep: Investigation into Tea Culture'?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Research?
What is the course title for Costanzo 76707 and Mccafferty 76710?
What is the course code for Business Science in the text?
What are the two courses mentioned in the text that start with 'Production Prep'?
 How many cases had speech reported to be normal with level-2 voice chains?
Who introduced zero knowledge proofs with Micali according to Goldwasser's recollection?
What are the names of the authors who wrote about Neural Code Generation?
Where and when does Applications of Cognitive Science take place?
What is the name of the student who participated in Independent Study 1-24 with Instructor Gogolak?
Who is the instructor for Fellowship 1.0 W TBA CMU REMOTE?
What is the name and instructor of Weight Training A4?
Do all doctoral programs have the same length?
What happened at the Gettysburg College event?
Who is the instructor for the Introduction to Philosophy course held in PH A19 on Monday through Friday from 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM?
What is the URL of the Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures page?
What is the course code for Technical Character Animation?
 How are clean situations derived in VALUEPRISM?
What kind of information can be found in The WORD?
What is the philosophical approach and procedures for CMU's different departments and degree programs?
Who are the people with last names starting from E to H listed in this text?
Who teaches IDeATe: Electronic Logics && Creative Practice?
Who are the instructors for the course mentioned after Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA AH TBA TBA?
What was the date of the news article about Carnegie Mellon earning an automatic bid to the NCAA Championships?
What is the purpose of having College Liaisons in the Division of Student Affairs?
 What does it mean for all clients to be rational?
Who did the team play in their third match at the Franklin & Marshall Tournament?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What are the names of the teachers who will be teaching Acting II, Orchestration II and Piano Pedagogy IV?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Production Prep: SOM 1 Lighting Production?
What is the name of the degree mentioned in this text that has a Master's Degree Research component?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-12 in Lightman B?
What are the days and times for the class 'Interaction Design Fundamentals: Interaction Design for Human-Computer Interaction B'?
Who are the instructors for the Saxophone class?
According to the text, what happens if a student commits a second violation while on disciplinary probation?
What is the name of the class that starts at 03:20PM in this text?
Who are the authors of the article titled 'Research in Psychology - Mini VAR A2'?
What is the name of the teacher who will be teaching Violin in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches Biochemistry I in PH A22, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the authors of this text?
Where are the classes 'Introduction to Greek Mythology', 'Beyond Physical: The Psychology of Athletes', and 'They Came as Romans: Roman Civilization 360' located?
What is James Hillhouse's event?
Who was recruited from Bell Labs to become the new department head after half of CMU's Computer Science Department faculty left?
 What is the objective of long-form QA?
 What is unique about the publicly available agent evaluation environment described in the text?
What is the URL for Carnegie Mellon's Graduate Education website?
Why do the boys want to form a band?
What is the course title and time slot of the Animation Workshop class?
What are the days and times for each course listed in the schedule?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Mei and Sung (98128) at 7:00 PM?
What are the hours of operation for SafeWalk?
Who teaches Transnational Feminisms?
 How does SAMA compare to other baseline meta learning algorithms in terms of throughput and memory consumption?
What is the title of Doctoral Thesis Research according to this text?
Who are the authors of this text?
What are some practical systems that can be constructed using NLP technologies?
 What is the Top-1 accuracy achieved by the well-trained ResNet-18 model on Tiny-ImageNet data?
What kind of health issues can students address with UHS's registered dietician and health promotion specialists?
What kind of sports can be played in the gym for basketball and volleyball at the University Center?
What are the days, times, and locations for course 15652 Foundations of Programming Languages?
 In the fully-adjusted model, how was AGR associated with OS?
What is the main purpose of exploring how to use typology and universals in developing language technologies?
What are the course codes and their respective instructors' names for Computing @ Carnegie Mellon - A3, E3, F3, H3, I3, J3?
What is unique about the way scientists work at Microsoft?
Where can students find more information about the application process and deadlines for GuSH Research Funding?
 What are the three distinct alphabets used in the text for phonetic embeddings?
What is the course title of Course 17702?
 How does denoising back-translation (DBT) contribute to improving unsupervised speech translation performance?
 What is the purpose of the global gate predictor (GGP) mentioned in the text?
Who teaches the Stagecraft Video & Media courses?
What are the course codes and instructors for the three courses offered by Bukh?
 What effect does a large value of λ have on the FastEmit regularization method?
What is the purpose of the 'Map/Legend' section?
When does Decision and Risk Modeling class take place?
When and where is 'Principles of Computing' held?
 Why were pools of post-vaccination human serum samples used as serum standards in the study?
What were the biggest employers in Fort Madison?
Who are the instructors of Acting I and Acting II classes?
What are the names of the instructors for Voice Lab and Millinery II?
What are the names of the three elective studios mentioned in this text?
 What is the goal of training the VLM to optimize against simulated human preferences?
When and where will Entertainment Rigging be held?
Who are considered as F-1 or J-1 students in the text?
What are the days and times for the class titled 'Statistical Foundations of Business Analytics'?
 What is the technique introduced in the paper by Aoran Xiao et al. called?
When does Environmental Systems on a Changing Planet: Science & Engineering Addendum take place?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Production Prep: Put Your House in Order for Carnegie Scenic?
What are the days and times for Interaction Design Fundamentals D?
 What is the maximum number of items the content could refer to?
 Who was Lakewood built for?
What is the name of the project mentioned in the first line?
What is the name of the school where these classes take place?
What are the days and times of Vitone 51121 Visualizing?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in the schedule?
 What was the average correlation coefficient for Adequacy scored by six annotators?
Who are the teachers involved in these independent study projects?
What are the names of the teachers and their class schedules?
What is the date and time of Panther Opener in the Tartan Women's Cross Country Schedule?
What is the name of the instrument that Knox teaches at his studio in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the instructor for EUREKA!: Discovery and Its Impact on Tuesdays?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product in the SOA region?
 What does SELF-REFINE do in the task of sentiment reversal?
Do I need to audition for The Kiltie Band?
Who is responsible for monitoring metered parking in the city?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What are the names of the classes taught by Hines and Russman?
What are the names of the instructors teaching AI and IoT for the Real World course?
Can a student use the same course to satisfy both a qualifying course requirement and an elective course requirement?
Where can students find additional resources for understanding university policies and expectations?
When and where does the 'Applied Machine Learning' course take place?
What is the name of the first course being taught in this schedule?
What should a student do if their course instructor has not assigned a grade?
What are the names of the instructors for Design Thesis Practicum: 9-21?
What is the name of the office that handles research integrity and compliance at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the time slots for Production Prep classes in alphabetical order?
What is the course name and location for the course offered on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday at 10:00 AM?
How long is an Affiliate ID Card valid?
 What is the goal of CSurF in sparse retrieval?
 According to the text, what concept considers that different human values can lead to distinct decisions?
 What was the largest group of participants based on their current position?
What is the role of Harding GA and Premo GB?
Which courses are offered by the Neuroscience Institute with a time slot of 3-60 hours per week?
What is the course code for Web Application Development?
Who was honored with UAA Women’s Golfer of the Week Honors on October 24, 2023?
What are the timings for the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty' held in HBH 1204?
 What is the final instruction for using the Emirates ID card?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
Who said 'In the old days, a few people used to know a lot of things'?
 What is the purpose of incorporating weights in the acoustic parameter differences?
 How many A6000 GPUs were used for inference on the largest CHARM model?
What is the course code for Practice Teaching (Elementary)?
Once I begin a master's program in SCS, is it possible to change to another program?
What is the duration of each independent study mentioned in the text?
 What is the main purpose of the in-line microscopes mentioned in the text?
In which section can students find information about computing services provided by the university?
Name one course from each category that is part of Example 3.
Who visited Carnegie-Mellon and suggested that they were weak in theory?
Who are the instructors for Instructor C and where is it located?
What achievement did Berliner achieve by the time he turned 20 years old?
Who are the instructors for the classes that start at 9:30 AM and end at 10:50 AM?
When and where is Repertoire Orchestra held?
What is the name of the program mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors for Exploring Modern Mathematics course?
What is the location of all these courses?
What is the process for early degree certification in a student's graduate program?
 What kind of datasets can benefit from the capabilities of Unlimiformer?
When does LTI Orientation take place according to the handbook?
Who are the instructors for M.F.A. Thesis Writing Seminar II?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Product and Brand Management: 9.0 at TEP 2610 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the dates and times of the classes taught by Cervesato and Kohlbrenner in this schedule?
When and where is the 'Management Science II' class held?
What is the course code for Advanced Topics in Financial Mathematics?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What are the names of the courses for Sound Design and Video & Media Design in Production Prep: Ottone in Villa?
What are the names of the three study abroad programs listed in the schedule?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'ETC Interdisciplinary Project II'?
Who are Syeda Akter and Fatima Al-Raisi?
 What is the objective of partial label learning (PLL) as mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in BH A51?
What are the names of the teachers who teach Elementary Chinese Online I and Chinese Calligraphy: Culture and Skills?
What is the title of the Innovation & Entrepreneurship course that teaches for 12 credits and meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 3:30 PM to 4:50 PM?
What is the name of the intermediate studio course that focuses on physical computing?
What happens if a student commits a second violation while on disciplinary probation?
What is the name of the women's tennis team that played against Case Western Reserve?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): Costume Design?
 What percentage of the participants were women?
What role does creativity play in an academic community?
 What is the sentence-level accuracy of the Conformer model from Table 3?
What is the URL of the Language Technologies Institute website?
What are the course codes for Elementary Chinese I and II offered by Su in Pittsburgh?
What are the names of the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12,15 N2?
What are the class times and location of Special Topics: Additive Manufacturing Processing and Product Development?
What are the days and times of Chick's courses?
What was the overall record of Tartan Women's Tennis team for 2023-24 season?
What is the role of the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs in managing GuSH Research Funding?
What is The HUB Student Services Center?
 How many attention blocks did the encoder in the Conformer-based middle model have?
What does the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University do?
 What issue does the proposed loss term ISMS aim to alleviate in DNN outputs?
 How do dynamic models differ from static models in adapting their architectures to different inputs?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:30 PM and ends at 1:50 PM on Saturday?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two courses that start at 8:00 AM on Tuesday?
What is the significance of Longer-than-standard Completion for Master's students?
What is the course title of Mai's Special Topics in Circuits: Board-Level RF Systems for the Internet-of-Things class?
When does class B start and end?
What is the topic of the lecture in Sub-Saharan Africa?
How long does it usually take to complete an MSAII degree?
What are the two main breaks in CMU's academic year?
What are the names of the courses taught by Chao B and Chao in GHC 4215?
What happens if an LTI Ph.D. student's spouse earns more than $200 per month?
What is the course title of the first class listed in the schedule?
What should students do before signing any IP agreements?
What are the minimum TOEFL scores required for successful applicants?
What are the names of the two speakers and their respective topics in the fourth session?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the piece being performed in the last class?
When does Harmony I take place?
Who is teaching the Costume Design class for Production Prep of Macbeth and when are they scheduled?
What are the class names and their respective codes for S 11:00AM - 03:00PM on Tuesdays?
 What does the dense dots vs line plots comparison indicate about bi-encoder performance?
On what date is the Softball match against TCNJ taking place?
 What is the phoneme classification accuracy on MOCHA?
What is the Master of Robotic Systems Development Application?
Where are Matthews and Muller teaching their Internship in University Teaching?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12.0 A MW and ends at 04:50PM?
 What does the ability to avoid objects depend on, according to the text?
What was unique about the collaboration culture at CMU in the past?
What is the difference between computer science in the 60s and 70s according to Newell?
What were the names of the teachers who taught at WEH 5403 during the given time period?
 Which language has the lowest SEScore in the Sino-Tibetan language group?
 What types of problems fall into the category of NP-complete problems?
What conference did the 2023 Tartans Men's Soccer team play in?
When are the production preparation classes for Lorca: Costume Design held?
Who are the teachers listed in this schedule?
How does speech and multimedia technology impact our daily interaction with computers?
What are the dates and times of the 54462 Production Prep: Dance/Light session?
When and where does the 'Physics of Stage Machinery' class take place?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA 57497?
What are the days and times for Dynamic Systems and Controls?
 Which months showed the maximum absolute difference in dust column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component dust retrievals in the ARA region?
 What does the HomeRobot OVMM challenge focus on?
What are the three courses taught by Instructor in Comprehensive Review (Notes) 1.0?
What does MIIS stand for in this context?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
Who are the instructors mentioned in this text?
 How does the optimized code in Figure 7 improve upon the slower code?
What happens if a person fails to complete their master's degree within the time-to-degree limit at MCDS?
What is the name of the course that fulfills the Study Abroad requirement for Psychology?
 How does cold fusion differ from deep fusion in LM combination?
 What are some benefits of using Unlimiformer without further training?
What is the course code for Dietrich College Interdisciplinary Study Abroad?
What are the days and time slots of Funding Early Stage Ventures: class?
What are the days and times of the week when Younis teaches in CMB at Doha, Qatar Affara?
What is the location of Performance 3-9 A?
Who is the head coach of Men's Track & Field?
 How did local emissions such as traffic and cooking influence D50 at different supersaturation levels?
What is the standard degree requirement for attaining an LTI PhD?
What does University Policy on Grades cover?
Who are the instructors for MFA Thesis Writing Seminar I and Graduate Independent Study?
What is the name of the chorus that will be held at MM on TR from 04:00PM to 05:20PM?
How much does it cost to apply for one program in Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What is the name of the course held at 09:30AM on Monday through Friday starting from August 31st, taught by Instructor TBA?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered at POS 146 on Saturday?
What time does the Men's Golf team start their Tiger Invitational 'B' Team event on Sunday, March 10?
 Explain the representation of a 2-layer fully connected neural network using factorized weight matrices.
 Why is Fusion-in-T5 (FiT5) designed to consolidate multiple IR features into a single learnable model?
What is the course code for the course taught by Spirtes at TBA TBA?
What is GSA's role in advocating for graduate student issues?
What is the course title of the course held at CMB 2035 on Monday and Wednesday from 9:00 AM to 10:45 AM?
What are the days and times when 'Fabricating Customization: Prototype' is offered?
 What method was used to introduce randomness across factors and reduce variance in the study?
Who teaches Design Studies: Place?
What are the course codes and titles offered in the Sustainable Engineering Principles class?
 What potential risk is associated with utilizing pre-trained models on novel benchmarks?
What is the last name of the instructor who comes after Frick in this text?
Who is Sullivan, Shields?
What are the days of the week when each lecture is held?
What is the name of the person who will be teaching Literature and Repertoire: Tuba at 04:00PM?
 What is the unique focus of the MISP 2023 challenge in ICASSP 2024 Signal Processing Grand Challenges?
What is the course code for 'Bioorganic Chemistry: Peptides, Proteins and Combinatorial Chemistry'?
What are the requirements for completing the MIIS program?
 How is the pseudo parallel data generated in denoising back-translation?
What is the requirement for international students seeking internships/co-ops or signing offer contracts?
In which year was a paper titled 'Possibilities for computer structures' presented by C.G. Bell and A. Newell?
Is there a specific program that students should check in their handbook to find information about emergency loans?
Where is Language Technologies Institute located at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Katoch in this semester?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What additional information can be found on Computing Services' website?
Are students expected to provide their own computers for studying at the Language Technologies Institute?
When does the end-of-semester evaluation take place?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA?
What is the time of each course?
 What does the Speedup column in Table 3 compare between PAR and AR?
 What happens when the PM2.5 mass concentration exceeds the mean value?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 07:00PM on Friday?
Where is the location of Art 60499 Studio Independent Study?
Who teaches Independent Study Interaction Design Studio?
 What is the significance of the workflow diagram of SAMA presented in the text?
 What differences were noted between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component dust retrievals in terms of dust column concentration over the MED region?
What are the specific requirements within the 72 LTI course units for MLT degree attainment?
What are the topics discussed in section 4.2.5 of this text?
What is the course title of Hiller's class?
Where do the Shuttle Service operate to?
When does the Thesis Research take place?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What is the course code for Generative Modeling?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday mornings from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What are the two time slots for Production Prep: Lear?
Who are the instructors teaching each day?
What is the frequency of professional development seminars and workshops mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes for the courses taught by Professor Sokalski?
Where does Diel teach their student-taught course?
What is the name of Chin's class?
What are the names of the students who will be attending the Information Systems Internship course?
What is the name of the sixth course mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Al Masaeed, Burns, and Dworkin?
What is the course code and title of the course taught by Matthews in POS 145?
 What backbone is used by both DACS and SAC for architecture?
What does TBA stand for in this context?
What are the days and times when the 'Special Topic: Advanced Mechatronic Design' course is held?
What is the purpose of the MCDS curriculum?
What are the dates for End of Semester Evaluation and Enrollment Verification?
What is the duration of study expected from MIIS-16 students enrolled for part-time study?
 Why do the authors argue that the fixed 20ms resolution for hidden representations in HuBERT may not be optimal for speech processing tasks?
 In which month is the maximum relative difference in dust column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component dust retrieval obtained?
When and where are Media Design L, Directing A, Dramaturgy B, and Production Management C classes held?
What are the main sections available on this page, as per the text?
Where is the NCAA Championships held?
What kind of office space is available for full-time students in the LTI’s MLT program?
What are the course codes for the courses offered at HBH on Tuesday, Thursday (TR), 03:30PM - 05:20PM?
 What is the central idea behind the update rule u in the context of the algorithmic adaptation for any adaptive optimizer?
What are some potential benefits of completing a graduate program early?
 What is the proposed framework mentioned in the text?
 What performance value is provided for IRNet in the text?
 What is one advantage of using Transformer-XL?
How can students request enrollment verification?
What is the course code for Fluid Mechanics Lab?
What are 'LTI Focus Areas' according to the given text?
What are the days, times, and locations of all Acting for Leadership and Communication classes?
What are the days, times, and locations of User-Centered Research and Evaluation lectures?
What are the days and times of the Virology class?
According to Berliner, what trend did he notice among some students at CMU before retiring?
What is the purpose of this page?
What are the dates and times of Data Structures and Algorithms 12.0 A TR 11:00AM 12:20PM HBH 1007?
What are the two sections of Financial and Managerial Accounting II offered at Sudbury?
 What is the main motivation for using tools in the tool-augmented framework for detecting factual errors?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching the Lighting Production class?
What are the days and times of the Scenic Design E course?
Who are the instructors for Shields, Van Hoesen EA and Cardenes EB?
Who are the instructors for the Neurobiology of Disease and Undergraduate Colloquium for Sophomores classes?
What additional information can be found on Computing Services' website?
When does Evans teach Percussion Methods?
What is the name of the course that starts at 3:30 PM on Tuesday and teaches Who Wore What: When, Where, Why II?
What are the class timings for Operations Strategy?
Who is the instructor for 'Production Prep: Put Your House in Order: Sound Design'?
 What downstream tasks does Pengi show state-of-the-art performance in?
What is the instructor for Production Prep classes in Pittsburgh?
What is the significance of completing a Ph.D. dissertation in terms of scientific contributions?
When listing my programs on the application, how will this order affect my admission to each program?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching the Production Management class in this schedule?
What is the source of information about financial assistance options for student parents at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can students find information about Student Information Online (SIO)?
 How does GILL outperform retrieval models like FROMAGe in some cases?
 What does the strategy in the pseudo-code of HILL aim to achieve?
 What is the optimal solution x∗ to a TSP instance according to the paper?
Who teaches the 'Data Visualization and Dashboards' class at 6:00 PM on Wednesdays in Washington, District of Columbia?
When and where does Graduate Reading and Research 17997 take place?
 What is mentioned in the text as a result of biased sampling in the case of the gene NSD1?
 How does the mDPR model identify relevant passages for a given question?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Pretnar at TCS 250?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Matrix Algebra with Applications?
Where does the Grand Challenge Seminar 'Preserving History with Blockchain Technology' take place?
Where does the instructor teach for the 'Production Prep: Lorca' course on Wednesday evenings from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What is the purpose of academic integrity policy?
What was the name of the center that became the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching the course 'Blackjack Techniques'?
 What is the role of the DETIC object detector in the comparison between the heuristic and RL policies?
What are the requirements for applying to the MCDS program?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What was the time slot of Literature and Repertoire: Percussion class?
What are the class times and days for Human-Computer Interaction (05291) Learning Media Design?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
How many students are in each class?
How does LTI share its research findings with other professionals and researchers across the globe?
What is the name of the research training program offered by Koedinger, Carvalho, Creswell, Vales, Thiessen, Tarr, Mahon, Helgeson, Cullen, Trujillo, and Heller?
What is the course code for Professor Peha's Ph.D. thesis research?
What is the purpose of an 'N-1' letter?
What are the course names, instructors, and credit hours for the classes held on Tuesday, Thursday at 10:00 AM?
What are the names of the instructors for Elective Studio (Clarinet), Elective Studio (Bassoon), and Elective Studio (Saxophone)?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the title of the third course mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course taught by Tang B in room PH A18C?
What is the location of the ENGAGE in Wellness: Looking Inward 1.0 A1 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Hovis, Howell, Turnshek, Willard, Stump B1 TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Hovis course?
Who is the opponent in the first game mentioned in the text?
How many practice requirements are there in the program?
What are the days and times of the Costume Design G course?
 Why has the evaluation of MERRA-2 aerosol component products not been conducted globally?
What is the practical formulation of this question that Dr. Shafi, with Yael Tauman Kalai and Guy Rothblum, introduced?
What is the course code for Multicultural Pittsburgh: VR Storytelling?
When is Puccini's Operas scheduled to be held?
What are the locations and times of Sousa's classes?
How does the Program Director make decisions about transfer credit?
What are some of the resources available to support graduate student academic and research needs?
 How many baselines are considered in the study?
Who teaches Quantum Mechanics I in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Choudhary B's class in POS 151?
What are the days of the week and times for class HBH A301 listed in the schedule?
When does Teaching Methodologies for the Foreign Language Classroom II start in Spanish C?
How long do students have to finish their required course work after receiving an 'I' grade?
What are the days and times of the class 'Learning in Museums'?
Who teaches the class 'The American Railroad: Decline and Renaissance in the Age of Deregulations' at 10:00 AM to 10:50 AM?
 What kind of encoder model is typically used in the dual encoder architecture for dense representations?
Who is the author of the article 'WW TBA DNM DNM Doha, Qatar Bruder Research in Psychology'?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Eckhardt and O'Hallaron?
What kind of assistance do library liaisons provide?
What is the course code for the second class listed in this text?
 What are the different methods listed in the table for rain as the target?
What are the topics in Duesing's independent study?
What is the page number where the policy for safeguarding educational equity: sexual misconduct policy can be found?
Who was Carl Ebeling?
 What DNN architecture is used in the text?
Who are the instructors for this course?
What are the timings for Lecture 3 of Concepts of Mathematics (21124)?
How many courses are taught by Bates and what are their titles?
What is the name of the course offered in Critical Studies: Wanderlust: Art and Nature?
Who are the instructors for H and I in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the contact details of the Language Technologies Institute?
 What are the popular solutions designed to address the frequency permutation problem?
In which city is Marcinizyn located?
What are the typical course requirements for MIIS-21 students?
Can suspended students take courses elsewhere and receive transfer credit?
Who is teaching the 'Electronic Devices and Analog Circuits' course in room HOA 160?
What are the names and locations of the three classes mentioned in the text?
What can students find on the CMU academic calendar website?
What are the names of Palchesko's lab classes?
What was the purpose of smart traffic signals developed at CMU's Robotics Institute?
Where can students direct their questions about transcripts?
 What did Bokhari et al (2017) achieve in terms of Android app improvement?
What are the days and times of Introduction to Building Performance?
What is Jennifer Clark's role in the organization?
How many authors are there for this dissertation, including instructors?
What are the benefits of Early Completion?
When does the Production Prep: Macbeth: Production Management class meet?
 Which open-source e-commerce platform was used to develop the shopping website with approximately 90k products?
 What are the parameters (M ) for the Full-rank model?
What is the name of the course taught by Patterson in the QSSS Proseminar 2?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Rhetoric, Science, and the Public Sphere?
What is the name of Kovak's Ph.D. Microeconomics course?
 What was the achievement of Callan and Petke in reducing the time taken to move between Activities of Android apps?
What is the date of the softball game between Brandeis and Carnegie Mellon?
What is the title of the course that will be held at WEH 5409 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What does the abbreviation ICASSP stand for?
What are the topics discussed in section 5.1 of this text?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Yoga for Musicians'?
What time does Warren's Advanced Fiction Writing: 9.0 Adv Fictn Workshop take place?
What are the course codes for Phillips's classes?
 In Unlimiformer, how are cross-attention heads able to attend to tokens from the entire input sequence?
What are the dates and times of the Production Prep classes for 'Want to be a Mother'?
Why is it unusual for a software company like Microsoft to fund basic scientific inquiry?
 What process occurred when the depolarization ratio was relatively large (>0.2)?
What is MAPi, and how does it relate to LTI's dual-degree Ph.D. program?
 What are multimodal language models capable of processing?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete Alumni Mentoring Program?
What is the requirement for course grade and GPA in the degree requirements section?
Where is the Internship (Studio-Based Graduate Programs) for Master of Urban Design located?
What are the class times and locations for Beginning Tennis A4's Racquetball course?
What are the days and times when 'Production Prep: Lorca: VAR Directing' is offered?
When does Yilma's Undergraduate Colloquium take place?
What are the class times for TBA W 05:00PM?
 How can one apply for an Emirates ID?
What can be found on page 32 of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the timeline for completing a PhD in SCS?
Where is Sound Recording Workshop held on MWF?
Which option is not a way to share content?
What is the course code for Tilton's classes?
What is the name of the course that starts at 01:00PM in room MM 119?
What is the name of the group that this person co-leads?
Who are responsible for administering MIIS degree?
Who are the instructors for 'Sender: Costume Production'?
 How does ORCA compare to hand-designed, AutoML-searched, and general-purpose architectures across a breadth of modalities?
What are the names and locations of all classes that start with 'F' in the schedule?
If further work has not been completed after one semester and a default grade is rendered, what happens to that grade?
What are the days and times for Space and Mobilities?
What are the days and times for each of the courses listed in the schedule?
 What is unique about the proposed approach in generating images and text?
What is the course code and title of the class taught by Ilany-Tzur at Carnegie Mellon University in Doha, Qatar?
What are the course codes for the courses offered on Tuesday, Thursday from 09:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
Where should applicants go to apply for the MCDS program?
What level of education does research play a major role in?
Who are the instructors for Seminar Supplement 1-12 A and Philosophy Colloquium 1-24 A?
What is the minimum number of individuals that can be inducted each subsequent year after the first year?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Amateur Radio'?
 What type of evaluation of OCR systems is presented in the paper?
What is the name of the event listed in this text?
How can one learn more about faculty hiring at SCS?
Which instrument does Instructor TBA teach at C studio?
 What was observed about the relationship between κorg and O:C ratios?
What is the purpose of the Office of Research Integrity & Compliance?
 According to Table 1, how does the base method regularized with the constraint perform compared to the unregularized version?
What are the course codes for The Art of Personal Finance, Introduction to Coldworking, and Infinite Rooms: Photography and Installation?
What are the three production preparation classes mentioned in this text?
 How does TASTE propose to encode long text sequences of user-item interactions?
What is the 'Grandfather' policy in LTI academic policies?
What instrument does Evans, Branson, Allen teach at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location and time of class P in the text?
What is the role of the university community in maintaining academic integrity?
What is the course code for Mcgowan's IDeATe: digiTOOL class?
What are the dates and times for the Membrane Trafficking course?
What does the curriculum of the MLT program provide?
What is the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and CSS / Financial Aid PROFILE?
Which office provides support for graduate students' health, wellness, and safety needs at Carnegie Mellon University?
How long does it take to complete a master’s program?
 What dataset was the system evaluated on?
What are the days, times, location, and instructors for class A4 TBA - TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can the text be shared according to the given options?
 What is the purpose of model fusion during decoding according to the text?
What is the title of the workshop that will be held in PH A19 on Monday through Friday from 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM?
What are the names of the courses offered in Persuasive Design and Design of Artificial Intelligence Products?
What are the dates and times of Loh W M's lecture?
Where and when does the lecture on The American Experiment: Unravelling the US Electoral System take place?
What are students encouraged to do as they begin making plans regarding time away?
What is the date and time of Carnegie Mellon's softball game against Salisbury?
What is the time and location of B section of Principles of Software Construction: Objects, Design, and Concurrency?
 What was the average difference in MCD between Spoken Text and Spoken+Written Text?
How many classes are mentioned in this schedule?
What is the course code for Honors Modern Biology taught by Dr. Minden?
Which team did #24 Carnegie Mellon play against on Sat, Oct/07?
Which department is responsible for computational biology at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
 How is VALUEPRISM converted for multi-task training in the multi-task setup?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
 What domains are included in the realistic web environment created for language-guided agents?
What is the name of the event on February 26th?
Who are the authors with 'Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania' as their location?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
Who is responsible for costume design in A Little Night Music?
Can an M.S. student use courses from another program towards their MCDS degree?
When did the Tartans place first in an invitational?
Who teaches Collaborative Piano I, II, III, IV, V, VI?
 What is the key building block for estimating k?
When and where does the class 'Advanced Topics in Machine Learning and Game Theory' take place?
What is the role of Holcomb in the given schedule?
When does Meyer W U teach Elementary Arabic II at Doha, Qatar?
When was the initial registration made for this process?
Who are the speakers at the BXA Student Advisory Council?
What is the name of the intermediate studio course that focuses on ceramics?
What is the address for the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What percentage of existing improvements did the technique automatically re-discover?
What are the key offices for health, wellness, and safety at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What does the derivative of the Lagrangian w.r.t. the model parameter alpha yield?
In section 2.1, what are Mailboxes & Office Supplies used for at The Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the two classes that start at 3:00 PM on Tuesday?
 How many hours of training data does each language in FLEURS have?
What are the two time slots for 'Media Design'?
What are the days and times of Graduate Seminar I for student Zhao?
What is the relevance of OIE's services to international students like those pursuing an MLT degree?
When does the Pr class take place?
Name two classes taught by Warren.
What is the course code of the Genome Editing Biotechnology course offered by Wong-Noonan in POS 153 at 11:00 AM on Tuesday?
 What is the uncertainty U measured as?
Who is Chenyan Xiong?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Monday at 11:20 AM?
Who are the instructors for the Masters Project classes?
When is the course 'Finance II' held?
What are the names of the courses taught by Ales?
Where can readers find more information about these topics?
 Why is finding prognostic biomarkers important in the context of anlotinib treatment for lung cancer?
What is the title of another course taught by Rawn?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-24?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA on HOA 223?
What is the subject of Major Studio (Voice) 9.0 A?
What happens if a degree is found to have been based on falsified work or academic records?
 What is the equation that describes the conservation of mass in the vocal tract?
Is there a specific date mentioned for 'Literature & Repertoire' event?
What is the course taught by Professor Young at 3:30PM on Monday and Wednesday in room PCA A41?
What is the location of Squires X's class?
What is the name of Penelope's production prep class?
What are the different categories of people at the Language Technologies Institute?
 What does Table 6 compare?
How can MCDS students change their address?
 What are the three evaluation tracks in AV-SUPERB referred to as?
Who are the instructors for 'Network and Internet' course?
Where can students find additional resources and information about sexual misconduct issues?
What are the course codes for Podcasting in Spanish: Unlocking Cultural Storytelling and Second Language Acquisition: Theories and Research?
Where can students find more information about student health services?
When and where is the class 'Automation of Scientific Research' held?
Who are considered as F-1 or J-1 students in the text?
What is the name of the course being taught by Greco in Pittsburgh?
What are the course codes for Major Fiction Then and Now and Special Topics in Creative Writing: 4.5?
What is the course title of Hermann's independent study?
What is the 'Grandfather' policy according to section 4.2 of LTI academic policies?
Where was the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology mentioned?
What is the role of Shackleford in the given schedule?
 What task were the preliminary experiments in section D conducted on?
What are the days, times, and locations of Computational Social Science Research Design and Data Analytics (Goel 17756)?
What is the course taught by Synnott B1 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What are the topics covered in the Product Design Fundamentals class?
Who are Syeda Akter and Siddhant Arora?
How long does it take to complete an MLT degree at Carnegie Mellon University for full-time students?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
What are the three different times for 'Lear: Stage Management D'?
What is the course code for Special Topics: Fundamentals of Software-Defined Networking at B23 211 in San Jose, California?
Who are the instructors for 'Introduction to Computing for Creative Practice' and their respective sections?
Can I transfer into a Ph.D. program from another college/university?
What is the recommended action for students who want to search for courses at Carnegie Mellon Home?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this page?
What is the Carnegie Mellon Code?
What is the course title, instructor's name, and class time for Moskal's class?
How can students stay updated with the latest news and events related to the program, as per the text?
What is the total student enrollment at Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science, including undergraduate, master’s and Ph.D. students in 2013?
What are the class times for all courses listed?
What are the locations and times of Hibshi's lectures?
Who is teaching the course Information Theory and Statistics?
What are the days and times for the course 'Transport in Materials 9.0 A T'?
What are the names of the two presentations for MSBA Experiential Learning?
When is the 'Sustainable Operations' class held by Gong W?
 How many commits were found in previous work that improved runtime, bandwidth, or memory use?
Who grades outside courses?
What is the name of the course taught by Kim in the M.F.A. Studio class?
 What is the origin of the widely used articulatory feature set mentioned in the text?
What proficiency requirements are needed for obtaining an LTI Ph.D. degree?
How would you describe the atmosphere of Pittsburgh?
 What is the goal of parameter-efficient fine-tuning?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
What is the name of the women's tennis team that played against Brandeis?
In what room is Watchdog Journalism held?
 What is the main difference between InPars and InPars-light?
What is the link provided in the text to review university grading policies?
What is the course name and instructor's name for MWF 09:00AM - 09:50AM in room DH 2315?
What is the title of the book discussed in this course?
What is the time and location of all classes taught by Kaestner and Lacomis?
What are the days and times of the class that meets in TEP 2610 with Major 70436 Applied Projects for Business and Economics?
 What is the purpose of the ablation model DSR-without-LM in terms of input?
What are the days and times for Ethical Theory (80630)?
What are the days and times of the courses with codes 03655 and 03791 in the text?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
 What were the components of the concurrent US2ST system referred to as (h) in the text?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for Responsible AI?
 What were the maximum improvements in memory consumption found using single-objective genetic improvement (SO-GI) on Tower Collector Current application?
What is the course title of Niang's course?
What are the main areas of research that LTI faculty and students investigate?
What is BioASQ 2016 Biomedical Semantic Question Answering challenge?
What is the course name and instructor for the course offered on Friday at 02:00 PM?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM in room CFA 102?
Where did Wu B perform?
What is the URL for the University’s Policy Against Retaliation?
What does Carnegie Mellon's Academic Disciplinary Actions Overview for Graduate Students describe?
What is the name of the course being taught by Warren at PCA 307?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:00 AM to 9:50 AM in room WEH 8220?
 What type of test was conducted to compare the naturalness of the byte-based and IPA-based models?
What are some nearby attractions to the LTI?
What are the course requirements for a student interested in deepening their expertise in Machine Learning area of concentration?
How many authors are listed in this text?
What is the course name and instructor's name for the Software Engineering Independent Study held by Aldrich?
When and where is Advanced DP3: Special Topic:: 10.0 Print and Resistance class held?
What is required for MS students to access university resources?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's vision according to the document?
 What does the study mentioned in reference [6] explore?
What are some facilities available at LTI's Pittsburgh campus location?
What is the title of the class that has no specific time or location listed?
 What are the essential steps involved in the forward pass of the ADLES-VFT algorithm?
Who are the authors of this text?
 What must be monitored in engineering practice to detect hidden cracks?
Who has a PhD in Language and Information Technology according to this text?
What is the location of da Silva Sousa's lecture for Special Topics in Integrated Systems Technology?
What are the classroom locations for Dangerous Ideas in Science and Society (80101) Lecture on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday at 1:00 PM?
 How was the relationship between κorg and Org/BC ratios parameterized in the study?
What does The WORD contain according to the given text?
What is the name of the course that teaches about 'Advanced Bagpipe and Drum Band'?
What is the course code for Vector Calculus for Computer Scientists?
What is the name of the course that replaces 11-691, Math for Machine Learning in Fall 2019?
 What does the work on OWSM aim to reproduce from the OpenAI Whisper model?
 What trend is observed in the quality of translations as idioms become more frequent?
What course does Instructor TBA P teach?
 How is the Arabic text normalized in the preprocessing pipeline?
What is the location of Cervesato's second class at GHC CLSTR in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
In which classroom is the Brand Strategy A4 class held?
What is the name of the location where Independent Study in Information Systems is held?
What is the location of POS 151?
 How does the ACL60/60 dataset contribute to the field of multilingual speech translation?
Where can students go to understand tuition payments, invoices, and payment options?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two courses that start at 8:00 AM on Monday?
What are the course names and their respective days/times in Machine Learning for Business Applications?
What position does Luke White play?
What is the location of the Studio (Harp) and Studio (Violin) classes?
What are the names of the authors who teach Methods for Statistics & Data Science 36200 Reasoning with Data in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course taught by Weild at PH 226A?
When does the class 'Introduction to Global Studies' start and end?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesdays from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM in MI 348?
Who are the teachers listed in this text?
What are the course codes and titles for the classes held in room HBH 1007?
What is the policy regarding financial aid for students in professional MS programs?
What are the class times and locations for Personal Fitness B3's Racquetball course?
 What difficulties are pointed out for challenge participants in the text?
During their third year back in Portugal, what will students be doing?
What is the name of the course held by Chin in CMU REMOTE?
What is the title of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM in room B23?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Special Topics in Chinese Studies?
What are the procedures for adding, dropping or withdrawing from courses at CMU?
 What is the result of the test case `truncate_number(4.56)`?
What is the name of the professor teaching Advanced Solfege II at 8:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
What is the title of the seminar that connects with the Pittsburgh community?
Where is the contact information for LTI Webmaster?
What are the credits for each class?
What are the days and times for Laboratory I: Introduction to Chemical Analysis A and B sections?
What can you find on page 37 of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the names of the instructors teaching each course?
What is the course number for 'Second Language Acquisition: Theories and Research'?
 What might result in very different true distributions according to the text?
What should a student do if they need immediate funds due to an emergency situation?
Which instrument does student D, Spacagna play?
Who is the instructor for Database Design and Development course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the page where you can find more information about CMU Men's Soccer?
What are the names of the courses offered by Opie in Introduction to Music Technology?
What is the event that starts at 9:00 AM EST on Friday, March 1st?
What are the different sections available on the Language Technologies Institute's website?
Who teaches Voice for the Stage I at PCA A35?
 In which month does MERRA-2 have the maximum absolute difference in dust concentration compared to GRASP/Component in the BOD region?
Who is the speaker of the lecture?
Who received the Nobel Prize in Economics three years after receiving the A.M. Turing Award?
What are the different types of faculty mentioned in the text?
 How does the size of Wds in the kNN-LM model compare to the size of Wsm in the standard parametric model?
What is Satya's connection with Carnegie-Mellon University?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Advanced Developmental Biology and Human Health course?
What services does the University Libraries offer?
Which sport do these athletes participate in according to the text?
When and where is the Tartan Men's Swimming and Diving Schedule for the 2023-24 season?
What are the dates of the Concepts in Artificial Intelligence: 5.0 course?
What is the name of the course taught by Dr. Mohimani on Monday and Wednesday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM in room BH A36?
 What is the title of the article mentioned in the text?
What are the dates and times for the Advanced Neuropharmacology course?
What is the validity period of Affiliate ID Cards?
Who were the instructors for Literature and Repertoire: Brass?
 What was the median age of the patients included in the study?
 What are some potential uses mentioned for the Jais model?
What is the phone number of the person who manages and posts content for Carnegie Mellon University Track & Field according to this Facebook page?
What are the dates in May?
Who is the author of this text?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
What is the course code for U.S. Latinos: Language and Culture?
What does RSS stand for in relation to this text?
What is the name of the course being offered for Master's Degree students?
What are the dates and times of Singh's two classes?
 What trade-off is observed in the text regarding the number of microphones used in ASR trained with GSS?
 What are the two main decoding strategies used for discrete DIFUSCO models in the experiments?
What position does Thomas Coury play?
What is the significance of having an Assumption of Risk & General Release form completed and returned prior to the start of camp?
 What are some applications that benefit from phonetic word embeddings mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Renaissance Counterpoint, Harp Pedagogy, Brass Pedagogy, Beginning Piano for Children II, and Collaborative Project in Music E?
What is the page number of the section that discusses maximum courseload for PhD students?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
What is the name of the course held at 09:30AM on Monday through Friday starting from August 31st, taught by Instructor TBA?
What is the course code and title of the Quality Management class?
Who is the head coach of the 2023 Tartan Men's Cross Country team?
 How does WebArena ensure that the observation can be input into different models?
When and where does Document & Information Design take place?
When does Viola class start?
Why is it important for Carnegie Mellon University to maintain academic integrity?
 What is the purpose of reweighting samples from the continued pretraining task with meta learning?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep: Grown Ups Stage Management?
 What is the main focus of SASRec and Bert4Rec?
When does the Production Prep for Costume Design start?
What is the location of the Design Center where students can attend a class on 'The Emerging Ecological Worldview'?
 What does the 2-neuron and 1-neuron classification/regression head do to the final embeddings of xt?
Where is the instructor for Study in Literary and Cultural Studies located?
In what section of the text can you find information about photocopies and printers at The Language Technologies Institute?
 In the error analysis conducted, what is the proportion of out-of-vocabulary words in the test set for Gitksan?
 What is the focus region for the map service implementation using OpenStreetMap?
Who is teaching the class 'Lear: VAR Directing A'?
What is the purpose of section 6.14 in the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the locations of the courses offered in the given schedule?
How many athletes are on the 2023 Tartan Men's Cross Country roster?
 What percentage of known improvements did GIDroid re-discover?
What time do the classes end?
What are the locations of the courses taught by Instructor J and London?
 What types of learning settings can ILL adapt to?
What is the title of the event listed at the end of this text?
How can students waive the University's health insurance plan?
How many years does a student spend working closely with their faculty advisor after completing the second year of Ph.D.?
 What is the class-wise IoU on domain generalization with SemanticKITTI as the source and rain in SemanticSTF as the target?
When and where does Ethics and Artificial Intelligence take place?
Who is teaching the lecture on Probability and Computing 9.0 Lec at what time?
Where and when will the Machine Learning for Text and Graph-based Mining class be held?
In which room does the 'Statistical Models for Management and Control - Causal Inference' course take place?
 What is the purpose of the Sub-decoder module in the multi-output transformer?
When is 'English Diction' class held?
Who teaches the 'Foundations of Software Engineering' class that starts at 8:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday in Kigali, Rwanda?
Who teaches the course 'Business Presentations For Product Managers' and 'Data Exploration and Visualization'?
 What is the significance of Figure 23 in the text?
Who teaches the Creative Story Development for Emerging Technologies course?
What is required to apply for any of LTI's graduate programs in Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
 How does the Virtual Beamline Studio (VBS) help in simulating tomography experiments?
 Why was the ordering of tasks not taken into account in the LME model?
What is the course code for Quantitative Evaluation of Language Technologies?
What is the course title of Nicholas Yttri's class?
What is the purpose of Academic Coaching at CMU?
What is the course code and title of the Business Communications course offered by Walter?
 In which cases was the performance almost the same as using oracle frequency alignment?
 What are the mean and standard deviation values used for color channel normalization in CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 datasets?
When and where will Synnott's session on Managing Mergers, Alliances and Divestitures take place?
What are the names of the teachers listed for MWF 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM classes?
 What is the purpose of using handcrafted features in the baselines?
What is the course title and time for lecture 1 in section 18755?
What is the name of the course that starts at 6:30 PM and ends at 10:30 PM?
When and where does Telang's class take place?
What is the date of the All-Atlantic Regional event?
 How many experiments are mentioned in the text that involve the performance of different models?
Who teaches Performance for Composers classes in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the dates, times, and location for Introductory Course for CS Doctoral Students (IC) (WEH 5302)?
What are the dates and times of the classes for 'Sender: Costume Design'?
What are the days and times of the week when Using Spanish in Social Contexts and Latin America Language and Culture classes are held?
What is the name of the university that owns Carnegie Mellon Home?
According to Jim Morris, what is the difference between a 'half Raj' and a 'full Raj'?
What are the names of the courses that start at 9:00 AM on Friday?
What is the purpose of Health Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Sherwood T's Introduction to Modern Chemistry I?
What are the names of the courses that start with each letter from N to T in the given text?
What are the names of the courses offered in Costume Design G?
What is the course for 'Production Prep: Love and Money: Dramaturgy'?
What is the name of the course that starts at 7:00 PM on Tuesday and Thursday in room DH 3302?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes that start between 8 AM to 11:45 AM?
When does the course 'Digital Integrated Circuit Design' take place?
What is the name of the course being taught on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
Where and when was the course 'Roller Coasters: Background and Design' held?
What are the names of the courses offered for independent study?
What school does Maddie Kellogg attend?
What are the advanced topics in CTAT?
 What is the key advantage of SELF-REFINE in terms of model training and data requirements?
 How are the results obtained on the SMS-WSJ dataset using UNSSOR presented?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Theory 3-9 A at Pittsburgh University?
What time do Badminton: 3.0 meet on Tuesdays at the CUC W GYM?
 Why is extracting claims from responses challenging in various task settings?
What is the location of the Flute I class?
What are the names of the two cities mentioned in the text?
Where can students find information about public health and safety requirements during the COVID-19 pandemic?
 What kind of benchmark does the paper propose and how does it aim to compare current baselines?
What are the dates and times of the External Projects classes?
What are the course codes for Data Analytics for Materials Science and Materials Project I?
What is the course title for Phillips' 79893 History Dissertation?
What are the names of the courses offered by Professor Mierzewski in this semester?
What school did Gabriel Bardis attend?
 What is the relationship between increases in model depth and latency?
When and where will Ross's Design Thesis Practicum for Lighting Thesis B take place?
How many credits does the Graduate Teaching II class have?
What is the purpose of A.2.4.1's data visualization support?
What is the location of the 12:00 PM class on Monday?
Where can students find more information about student and affiliate ID cards?
What are the days of the week when Spatial Computing Design is offered?
Where and when does Dunigan's Military Strategy and Doctrine class meet?
Who were they playing against in their first loss of the season, which happened during UAA Round Robin #3?
Where is Chinese Language, Culture and Society taught?
 What is the assumed requirement to determine the latent state in CTC?
What is the title of the second chamber ensemble mentioned in the text?
What is the location of Carlisle 57599 Senior Recital?
What is the financial support provided for PhD students at SCS?
Where and when does Charfi's TBA course take place?
What are the instructor's name for the course 'Introduction to Nanoscience and Technology'?
What are the names of the instructors for class 82989?
 What evaluation metric is used for Rom-orth since it is not in IPA?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in Production Prep for Macbeth?
What is the course code and instructor's name of the course offered on Thursday at 09:00 AM?
What is the structure of the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) program?
Where are Extragalactic Astrophysics and Cosmology taught?
What is the course code for Seminar in Ethical Theory?
What are the names and time slots of Rousseau's two classes?
What are the days and times for Undergraduate Seminar IV?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Directed Research A?
What is the purpose of recording information about transfer courses on a student's transcript?
What is the purpose of the comprehensive curriculum in MCDS program?
Who teaches Business Leadership Endeavor III TBA B3 R at TEP 3801?
 What was provided to participants to help estimate metric scores between original and translated sentences?
What is the location of Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation?
Which office is responsible for supporting language and cross-cultural issues according to section A.1.8?
What is the title of Ma and Yu's course?
 What kind of languages have previous studies on multilingual TTS primarily focused on?
What is the name of the tournament where Tartans open play at NCAA Preview?
What are the course codes and their respective times for the courses listed?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 10:00AM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
 According to the text, what was the hardest thing for the user2, a linguistic researcher, when correcting a document in Kwak’wala?
What is the course title of Course 17697?
What is the course code for Independent Study?
What are the dates and times for the Advanced Microbiology course?
When and where is 'Who Wore What: When, Where, and Why' offered?
 How was the concrete simulated in the numerical analysis?
What are the names of the other courses taught by Hanson on Saturday at 11:00 AM - 3:00 PM?
When and where does Counterpoint in Theory and Application take place?
When and where is the Database Design and Development class held?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 12:00 PM to 1:50 PM in POS 146?
Are pass/fail grades allowed for courses used to satisfy a degree requirement?
What are the names of the classes taught by Tu?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Gruzska?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
What is the title of the independent study being conducted by Rubin, Washko, and Barrois?
 Where is the code available for the kNNLM-why model?
What is the name of the first independent study course offered at this school according to the given information?
What was the result of the team's eighth match against Mount Union at Carnegie Mellon Quad?
What are the names of the two nonfiction workshops being offered in this semester?
What is the course code and instructor for Cognitive Robotics: The Future of Robot Toys offered by Touretzky?
 Which models are compared in the text?
At what time does Deserno's Biophysics: From Basic Concepts to Current Research lecture start?
 In Table 4, what type of models are evaluated for CER or WER (%)?
What is the location of Soluri's research training?
What does DEI stand for and what is its purpose in the Language Technologies Institute?
When and where does Exposure and Risk Assessment for Environmental Pollutants take place?
What is the main theme of 'The Kiltie Band'?
Who is the instructor for Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences: 15.0 Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What are tuition costs eligible for under the Student Emergency Support Funding in Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Practical Unstructured Data Analytics?
What are the positions of the instructors at this school?
What is the name of instructor for Independent Study 84266?
What is the name of the cross-registration program offered by Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA in Aylmer AB's location?
What position does Parker Owens play?
What are the names of the instructors for Introduction to Professional Writing in CEE?
What is the academic program of Shikhar Agnihotri?
What is the course code for Dissertation?
Where is Pittsburgh located?
What is the location of these courses?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 11:00 AM?
 How does the software architecture of ESPnet-ST-v2 in Figure 1 improve over the architecture of ESPnet-ST-v1?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings from 5:20 PM to 6:20 PM?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room WEH 5304?
 What is the purpose of the external quality assessment feasibility study discussed in the text?
What are the dates and times for Dietrich College Senior Honors Thesis III?
What are the course codes for Organic Chemistry II classes offered at DH 2302?
What is the purpose of the Academic Calendar at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is the instructor for Design Perspectives in HCI?
What is the course about Crime, Policing, and the Law?
 How do the authors propose to integrate musical similarity into a debiasing technique?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Harvilla's Maker Series: Intro to Welding 2.0 course?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
In which room does the Graduate Independent Study start?
What is the name of the teacher who will be teaching Business Leadership Endeavor II at TEP 3808 on Monday?
 What does the AV-SUPERB benchmark aim to evaluate?
Where is the Interactive Game Studio class held?
What are the dates, times, and locations of Modern Organic Chemistry II classes?
What is one example given in the text that requires 7 storage locations?
 What are the characteristics of the DPRNN architecture used in the experiments?
What are the days/times for Lamont's classes?
What is the course code for the class that starts at TBA and takes place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What happens if a student does not find an advisor after one month in the program?
What is the role of internships in the MIIS program?
What is the role of the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion according to the text?
Where can students find more information about The WORD?
What is the name of the course taught by Zetlin-Jones at 3808 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What significant influences does concrete strength have on the secondary transfer?
 In what field have numerous methods for parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) been introduced?
Who are Larocca A to J in relation to keyboard studies and who are W, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I in relation to Collaborative Piano Skills I?
 What software development platform was chosen for the collaborative software development platform?
What is the location of Elective Studio (Percussion)?
When does Wireless Communications class take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the 'Introduction to Structures' class held at Carnegie Mellon University?
Is Machine Learning 10315 only offered to SCS majors?
Where and when is the RFIC Design and Implementation course held?
 Where does the maximum K mainly occur during crack propagation?
What is the course code for 'Modern China B'?
When is course 27774 held?
What is the course code and title of the class taught by Mr. Thomson on Friday from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM in PCA 211?
Where does Sophia Zalewski come from?
What is the deadline to submit an application for Fall 2024 admission at Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What is the contact email of Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs?
What are the days, times, and locations of Artificial Intelligence Methods for Social Good (Goel 17737)?
 What is the purpose of utilizing self-training in the proposed method?
How does the Masters' Thesis presentation compare to a PhD thesis defense?
 What do the experiments demonstrate about the claim extraction module implemented by ChatGPT?
When and where is the Ph.D. Thesis Defense held?
What is the location of the course taught by Dessler?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Actor Dance II in Room 306 on Tuesday, Thursday?
What is the name of the instructor for Undergraduate Research in Philosophy VAR A?
What services does the Eberly Center offer to support graduate students as teaching assistants or instructors of record?
What is the purpose of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the deadline for adding, dropping or withdrawing from a course?
Which programs does the Center support for historically underrepresented students at both graduate and undergraduate levels?
 According to Table 4, which specimen has the lowest initial prestress?
What can students do if they believe that their education records are inaccurate or misleading?
What is the location of the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs where domestic partner benefits are orchestrated?
What is Graham Neubig's research area?
 What type of sentences are considered part of the context?
What are the days and times for Statistical Graphics and Visualization class taught by Yurko?
How many credits do Practicum in Physics and Graduate Laboratory have respectively?
What are the names of the productions that start at 11:00AM and end at 03:00PM?
How much does it cost to apply for a program?
What is the purpose of safeguarding educational equity according to the text?
What are the names and their respective instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 02:00PM in WEH 5409, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the room where Virtue F teaches at 12:00PM on Wednesday?
What is the course code for Maker Series: Intro to Laser Cutting & Engraving taught by Harvilla on Wednesday from 04:00PM-05:50PM in HH C101, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the main focus of the submission to the SIGMORPHON Shared Task on Interlinear Glossing?
Who are the instructors for Programming for Game Designers and ETC Virtual Production: Lighting courses in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Why is there a growing interest in developing human-centered AI?
 Where are real-world experiments conducted?
 What do albumin and globulin reflect in the context of cancer progression according to the study?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA?
 In a breakdown by question types, for which types of questions is Jais-chat competitive with ChatGPT and Claude?
What is the policy on grades for transfer courses at this university?
What is the name of Pillai, Satyanarayanan, Vinayak's classes?
Who teaches the course Data Structures and Algorithms for Engineers?
What is the location of Tague's Special Topics course?
 According to Table 9 in the text, what happens to the mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) with an increase in threshold?
What is the course name for Dayal's class?
Who teaches Intro to Writing the Television Pilot?
What is the course code for Computational Modeling, Statistical Analysis and Machine Learning in Science?
What are the names of the two courses being offered at different times and locations?
Who was the first department head of Carnegie Tech's Computer Science Department?
What are the days and times for Interaction Design Fundamentals B?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
How do students take course drop/add or withdrawal procedures in MCDS?
What are the requirements for admission to the School of Computer Science's Ph.D. programs?
What is the course code for Forlizzi and Saffer's Design of Artificial Intelligence Products B class?
What is the course code for Physics 33051?
Where is Movement III offered?
What is the course title of the Mobile Web Design & Development class held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 In terms of rankings, what does RR1 (𝜋) > RR1 (𝜋 ′) imply?
What are the names of the authors who instructed Sooriamurthi C3?
What are the course codes for Degraef's courses in A W 08:00AM 09:50AM DH A303?
How many CS majors were admitted as sophomores during the 1989-90 academic year?
When is Digital Media II held?
What is the event that Radnor's athlete specializes in?
Who are the authors of this text?
 What were the four categories into which the questions were divided?
What is the name of the event that Brown has scheduled?
What is the location of NM DNM?
When and where is A/B Testing, Design and Analysis held?
 What is the main focus of the experiments described in the text?
What is the name of the intermediate studio course that focuses on soft sculpture?
What is the course code for Design of Artificial Intelligence Products?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in the given schedule?
What is the name of the building where class F is held?
 What are the potential harms of exposing workers to toxic content, as stated in the text?
Which athlete has a hometown in New York City?
 What is the main focus of the article by Li et al. in J. Appl. Meteorol. Sci. 1992?
 What are the two carbon-neutral pathways produced by CovidMIP from 2020 to 2050?
What is the title of the handbook mentioned in the text?
What is the title of the course being taught by Shaikh?
 What decoding method is proposed in the text as a fast and accurate decoding method?
 What is the title of the paper mentioned in the text?
How does the author's approach lead to real-world benefits?
What is the course code of Nation, Culture, and Society in South Asian Cinema?
Who is the instructor for 'Theatre for the Ear' course offered on Friday from 9:00 AM to 10:50 AM in PCA 103?
What are the time slots when there is no class for Costume Design?
Who should international students consult with regarding immigration status and making normal progress towards completing degree requirements?
 What is the re-ranking throughput of the MiniLM-L6-30M model mentioned in the text?
What does the acronym 'BLAC' stand for?
How can you share an event from the iCalendar RSS Feed?
What is the name of the course taught by Xing and Zhang?
How many points are allocated for academic calendar?
What is the name of the book being used in 'Photography, the First 100 Years'?
When is the lecture of Current Research in Chemistry: 1.0 held?
What are the two neighboring libraries open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students?
What was the name of the venue where NCAA Championships were held?
What is the name of the course taught by Peng on Tuesdays from 1:00 PM to 1:50 PM?
 What is the challenge in adapting previous methods to scenarios with multiple coexisting imprecision configurations?
 What is the title of reference [1]?
What are the instructors' names and their respective courses for the listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the institute?
What is the name of the student who will be presenting his/her thesis research and writing in the field of Advanced SM: Management Styles?
When is Production Prep: A Little Night Music: Costume Design held?
Who introduced temporal logic?
 How many utterances from different speakers were selected for human evaluation?
In which room does Crary teach Computational Microeconomics?
 What was the median time to intrahepatic recurrence after curative hepatic resection?
 What is the process through which the aggregated global model is distributed to a randomly selected set of clients for validation?
What is the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
What are the course codes of all courses taught by Mr. Hines and Ms. Brown?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered in MM 119 at CFA KRESGE on Friday?
 What is the URL of the webpage in the second example provided?
 Why are traditional HMM architectures mentioned in the context of character-level modeling?
What is the name of the program mentioned at the beginning of this text?
What is the purpose of the Shuttle Service provided by Parking and Transportation?
What is the course code for Environmental Engineering 9.0 A TR 12:30PM 01:50PM WEH 5409?
What is being renovated in Skibo Gym?
 What was the offset reduced to in the x direction after the fine alignment of the walnut dataset in the text?
When and where does Major Vocal Performance Ensemble take place?
Who are the instructors for Student Taught Courses (StuCo): NLP Ethics in a Nutshell?
Where is the Media Creation Studio located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How do the BC column concentrations of MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval compare in the NCP region?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
How can students sign up for BeWell@CMU e-newsletter?
 What are Odor Activity Values (OAV) used for in the study?
What are the days and times of Severnini's courses offered by Caulkins?
 What is the name of the environment built in the text for language-guided agents that is highly realistic and reproducible?
What is the Employment Eligibility Verification Policy at CMU?
Who teaches Systems and Tool Chains for AI Engineers at B23 211 in San Jose, California?
What are the names of the classes that meet in the afternoon for 'Penelope'?
What are the days, timings of Sudia's classes?
Who are the people listed at the beginning of this text?
 What is the difference in the input representation between the parametric model and the kNN-LM model as discussed in the text?
Where can students find the University's Sexual Misconduct Policy?
What is the policy regarding consensual intimate relationships between undergraduate students at CMU, as mentioned in section 4.3.4?
What is the source of information about Eberly Center support for graduate students?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
Which schedule would satisfy course requirements for a student interested in text mining, text analytics, and question-answering systems?
What is the course code for Braun's Informational Visualization for Scientists?
What is the name of the city where this school is located?
 Who are some of the authors mentioned in the references section?
What is the course code for Management Consulting?
What resources does Carnegie Mellon provide for campus wellness?
What is the course code for Vector Analysis taught by Leoni?
 What are the key steps outlined in Algorithm 1 of the ADLES algorithm?
What is the title of Quesenberry's Black Mirror class?
What are the course codes and instructors for Goel 17723, Prompt Engineering?
At what time does the class 'Tucker Z2 TBA DNM DNM' start?
What is the name of the cognitive science group that was developed at the College of Humanities and Social Sciences' Psychology Department?
What is the name of the person who is responsible for administering the LTI PhD degree during Fall Semester?
Where and when is the Software-Defined Networking course held?
What is the responsibility of the entire community at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course that teaches Presenting Performing Arts & Festivals?
 What is the significance of SemanticSTF in directing future research on domain adaptive and domain generalizable 3DSS under all-weather conditions?
What are the titles of the courses/activities listed under each number?
What is the location of Tuttle B's elective studio?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the 'Histories of Urban Design' course that starts at 3:30 PM on Thursdays in room CFA 102?
What are the names of the instructors for Moneyball Nation: Data in American Life and Introduction to Science, Technology, and Society?
Who are the instructors for Principles of Microeconomics courses?
What is the course title of the course taught by Peng?
What is the name of the location where Distributed Game Studio - Game Art Pipeline takes place?
Who is teaching the class 'Want to be a Mother: Media L'?
What are the names and schedules of the instructors teaching 'Advanced Synthesis Options Studio II'?
What are the names of the courses offered by Strom in Philosophy?
If I submit my application before the early deadline, when must my recommenders also submit their letters?
What are the names of the courses offered in the Costume Production class?
What is the name of Klug's course at PTC 2301?
What are the names of all three classes being taught by Jafry O'Connor according to this schedule?
When was the last revision date for this handbook?
What are the days of the week and time for Introduction to Cryptography in room GHC 4215?
 What is the reason for adopting the Tucker decomposition in the model?
 What are the three main spoken language translation tasks that ESPnet-ST-v2 focuses on?
What are some of the awards that James Gosling has received?
 How many diffusion steps are shown for the discrete DIFUSCO models with linear and cosine schedules?
What are the locations of classes L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W in the text?
What is the course title of lecture 2 in Foundations of Programming Languages?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: Sender: Carnegie Scenic?
What are the days, timings of Pal-Agrawal's classes?
What are the names of the courses taught by Chen, Ficca, Yang, and Instructor TBA in MM 312 at different times?
Where was 'Decoding Conspiracies: From Moon Landings to Princess Diana's Death' taught?
What are the names of the courses offered in the Production Prep: Passage Sound Design class?
What are the two time slots for Production Prep: Lear?
What are the course codes for Fundamentals of Marching Band and Sound Editing and Mastering?
What is Alan DeGennaro's role in Athletics?
 According to the text, what is the increasing push moving towards in content moderation?
What is the URL where I can access housing-related information at Carnegie Mellon University?
What was the result of the game against Geneva in September?
Who are the people listed in the middle part of this text?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Composition UA and Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral): Voice AA?
What is the repayment period for the Emergency Student Loan?
What are the names of the two classes that John Proctor is teaching?
How can students request support from Academic Coaching?
What is the location of Regression Analysis Lec?
 What type of projector does KALE use for lexical expansion?
 What do the results of the research indicate about using a single codebook for real-world speech?
What are the names of the instructors teaching section 18749?
 What is the purpose of unit-based language models in TTS?
What are the names of the courses taught by Aylmer AB and Spacagna?
What is an N-1 letter?
What is the penalty for a second violation while on disciplinary probation?
Where is the seminar held?
Who should students contact for transcript-related questions at CMU?
Who teaches Advanced SIS: Open Sculpture?
What is the purpose of Copying, Printing and Mailing Services?
How are Lemur's software and datasets used?
What is the title of each student's independent study project in Music Entrepreneurship?
What are the phone numbers provided for Carolyn Rosé?
 Why is assessing the runtime cost of MO-GI important for Android apps?
What is the name of the stadium where they played a game against Point Park on September 15?
Who are the head coaches of Women's Golf?
Who are the instructors for the course 'Problem Solving through Solving Problems'?
 What is the significance of the number of shared task organizers and contributors?
Do you need a valid CMU ID to use the recreation facilities at CMU?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
What are some potential drawbacks of using Twitter to share information with a large audience?
What are the course codes for the courses that start with 'Advanced Undergraduate Research'?
What are the days and times when the course 'Production Prep: TBA 1: Scenic Design E' is held?
Who created the emoticon and when?
 How was the best-performing model chosen during the cross-validation process?
At what time does Deserno's Introductory Astrophysics lecture start?
Who voted to officially adopt the Scottish terrier as Carnegie Mellon's mascot?
What are the additional learning outcomes for students electing to complete the Systems concentration?
What are the days and times of the Style course?
 Why is it common to train a full-rank model for E epochs before factorizing it?
What are the course codes and titles offered in the Air Quality Engineering class?
What was the outcome of the Mid-Atlantic Regional for Carnegie Mellon's men's cross country team?
Where can students find photocopiers and printers at CMU?
When and where does Production Prep: Sender: Carnegie Scenic take place?
What is the course title for Warren 76442?
Who is the instructor for the Senior Capstone II class?
 What is the main focus of the structured pruning method HJ-Pruning?
What is the course title of the class taught by Labash on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 11:00 AM in room HBH 2003?
How many semesters does the MIIS-21 track take to complete?
What is the URL for the Academic Calendar at Carnegie Mellon University?
What instrument does Dealmeida study at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
Where can students find information about athletics facilities at Carnegie Mellon?
 What are the operating conditions of the detector used in the experiment?
What does 'MLT' stand for in this context?
What is the role of MCDS Program Administrators in handling tuition problems for students?
Who teaches Neg at TEP 2700?
What is the name of the instructor for the 54473 Drawing for Theatrical Designers course?
Who is the instructor for Costume Production class of Macbeth's External Projects?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Introduction to Yoga at CUC AR 254 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What type of information needs are common in short-form knowledge-intensive generation tasks?
Where does Barbuto teach Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Criminal Justice?
How can students obtain advanced training in the use and management of data at the library?
What is the email address of Kushagra Agarwal?
What is the location of the laboratory?
 What relationship is observed between the stress ratio and the crack length?
 What adaptation matrix was provided for the Adam optimizer?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's role in serving society?
What is the title of the study abroad program (DNM DNM) for Crary?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the 'Advanced CAD, BIM, and 3D Visualization' course that starts at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays in room TBA?
What are the names of the three people who teach Music Studio 3-9 section 3.0?
Who are the authors of this text?
Why might someone want to view this information in 'List View' or 'Headshot View'?
What is the phone number of the institute mentioned in the text?
What is the location of Shen's independent study in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Do MIIS applicants have to submit their GRE Subject Test scores?
How long does it take to complete a Ph.D. program?
What is the course code for Phillips's Independent Study?
What are the locations of the lectures?
According to the text, what academic year does this handbook cover?
What is the name of the instructor for Production Prep: Macbeth: Stage Management?
Who is the CMU Student-Athlete of the Week according to the article?
What is the Language Technologies Institute (LTI) a world leader in?
Where does Mia Constantin live/come from?
What are the social media platforms used by this institution for communication and updates?
What is the course code and instructor's name of the course offered on Wednesday at 01:30 PM?
What are the names of the books in Software Documentation class?
Who can use the tennis courts according to the recreation policy of Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Y?
What is the course taught by Brussalis B?
 What observations can be made regarding the distinction between dried fruits and branch exudates?
Who teaches the class 'Literature and Repertoire: Percussion'?
What are the days and times of Harvilla's Maker Series: Intro to Welding 2.0 course?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
What is the time schedule for stage management class D for 'A Doll's House'?
Who teaches History of Rhetoric: The Classical Age and Its Legacy?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:00 PM on Tuesday in room TEP 2111?
How can students make a connection into a community of faith during their time at CMU?
What are the days and times of Li's lecture in Lec 3?
What is the course code for Anime - Visual Interplay between Japan and the World?
What is the course ID number for 'API Design and Implementation: 12.0'?
What is the course code and title of the professionalization seminar offered by Costanzo?
 How is the advantage defined in the Advantage LOL RL objective in the text?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Chamber Music)?
Who is the instructor for Advanced Research in Hispanic Language & Culture?
What is the name of the third piece performed in the Major Studio (Cello) category?
Who invited Rashid to join Carnegie Mellon's faculty in 1979?
What are the names of the courses taught by Brumley?
What are the names of Erdmann's classes on Wednesday?
What is the course code for Machine Learning in Practice?
What are the course codes and instructors for the classes that start at 10:00AM on Monday and Wednesday in TEP 2111?
What is the name of the city where all these people live?
What is the GPS address of CMU's campus?
What was the streak of the 2023 Tartans Men's Soccer team?
In which section can you find information about student privacy rights and FERPA?
 What method was used to screen the volatile components greater than 1 in both dried fruits and branch exudates?
When and where does the M.F.A. Integrative Seminar take place?
What is the name of the instructor for the Major Studio (Cello) class?
Where and when does Nassif's course take place?
Why is the Scottish terrier considered a natural choice for Carnegie Mellon's mascot?
What happens if a student is put on academic probation and fails to meet the remedial requirements set by their advisor in the following semester?
Where are these music studies studios located?
What are the areas where MIIS-21 students can specialize in?
What is the website that provides information about funding options and how to apply for financial aid?
Where are Greco's classes held in New York, NY?
What is the department that maintains and publishes a list of courses satisfying each breadth requirement?
Who were the instructors for the 57693 Graduate Vocal Coaching course?
Which policy is discussed regarding final exams for graduate courses?
Name two courses that are taught by students and have a title related to music.
What is the course name for class TEP 2118 in this schedule?
Which course is about bagpipe and who teaches it?
What are the phone numbers for Carolyn Penstein Rosé and Robert Frederking?
 What is the main concern addressed by the study regarding voice-face correlations?
In which year was the student handbook revised?
Which programs are offered by the university for students who want to pursue a dual degree?
 How does Genetic Improvement (GI) differ from traditional software improvement techniques?
What is the name of the class taught by Hitchcock at 6:00 PM on Tuesday?
 Which stage was the study completed in accordance with?
What are the course names, instructors, and time slots for the courses offered at 07:00 PM on Wednesday?
Which event did the Tartans participate in on February 17, 2024?
How do I obtain an I-20 form?
What kind of information can be found for more details about appeals?
How can students sign up for weekly drop-in hours?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study: Breadth 1-48?
Is there any information available about Title IX application?
Who are the authors listed in this text?
What are the days and times of the week when Network Defenses is offered?
When and where does lecture for Microelectronic Circuits: 12.0 take place?
What do they aim to achieve academically at a world-renowned institution?
 What is the final regularised self-training objective defined as?
What are the names of all instructors mentioned in this text, listed alphabetically?
What are the days, times, location, and instructors for class A3 MW 10:00AM - 11:45AM in TEP 2118?
In which location and at what time does Lassman teach Independent Study 1-24 A1 TBA TBA?
 What dataset format is widely used for storing IR data according to OpenMatch-v2?
Where can graduate students find information about parking and transportation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the center that focuses on student success at Carnegie Mellon University?
What game did Berliner learn to play at summer camp?
Where are Galbraith UC and Whipple V located?
 Why were annotations incomplete in the system?
What is the name of the department(s) Amber Vivis works in?
What is the name of the course taught by Placone?
Who was named USA Track and Field Throws Coach for the 2024 Paris Olympics on February 17, 2024?
What is the course name and instructor teaching Writing for the Professions: Writing for the Professions for SCS students in PH A21 on MWF at 01:00PM?
What are the course codes for Exploration of Everyday Materials and Introduction to Computational Materials Science?
What happens if a student fails to meet all the specified conditions in an N-1 letter?
What are the days and times when Mcgowan is teaching Interdisciplinary Independent Study at OFF CAMPUS Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course taught by Smith in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does 'refined our notions of what our specifications for programs should be' mean according to the text?
Who are the instructors for Whipple's Advanced Music Studies Studio?
 How is the value estimate module of πref computed in the text?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
Where and when is the 'Grad Screenwriting IV' class held?
What is the name of the institution that offers this program?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA on Friday evenings from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
Who is Instructor TBA I4?
What is the name of the course offered by Sciannameo?
What are the days and times for the class titled 'Programming in R and Python'?
Under which section does University Police fall under in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
 What is the token count for English data sourced from The Pile?
Who are the students for Stewart C's elective studio?
 How does the text suggest smaller obstacles could potentially be handled more adeptly?
Where is the course 'Data, Inference, and Applied Machine Learning' held?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Thursdays?
What are the names of the courses that start at 12:00 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course taught by Bjorndahl E in PH 225B?
What time does the class start for Production Prep: John Proctor: Dramaturgy?
 What was the model architecture based on for the autoregressive TTS model?
What is the name of the instructor for Beginning Piano for Minors?
What is the name of the class that meets for 'Penelope' on Saturdays?
What role did the Robotics Institute play in making Pittsburgh a center for robotics research and applications?
What is the purpose of the External fellowships mentioned at 5.1.6?
What are the class names and locations for Novosat's classes?
What are the days and times of the Lifeguard Training course taught by Gauntner?
What are the requirements for a student to demonstrate aptitude in Electrical and Computer Engineering during their studies at PDEEC?
Does the MSAII program accept transfer credits from other institutions?
What is the course 'Management Consulting' about?
What is the course code and title of Acting for Directors I?
Who can students contact if they believe they have been the victim of sexual harassment or assault?
What are the names of the courses taught by Mahler U and Walton, Mahler V respectively?
What sport is being discussed in this text?
 What kind of model did the researchers train for PII detection?
Who teaches the course in 03655 section?
What are the course codes for the two courses offered by Professor Fong?
Who moderated the Mental Health Summit for student-athletes at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does the NCAA Championships for men's swimming and diving take place?
What is the course code for Study Abroad with Instructor's Name and Location?
What is the significance of diversity and inclusion at Carnegie Mellon University according to the text?
What are the days/times for Management Game and Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Emerging Markets?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Human Factors?
What are the names of the courses offered in this list?
What was the outcome of the softball game between WashU and Carnegie Mellon on Sunday, April 21st?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'Production Prep'?
 How many baseline methods are evaluated against DIFUSCO on TSP-50 and TSP-100?
Which companies are some of the places where MIIS alumni have gone on to exciting careers?
What are elective courses in the School of Computer Science?
 What are some potential names for an FIA Formula One World Championship racing team representing the United Arab Emirates?
Which option is not a way to share content?
What is the name of the class that starts at 5:00 PM on Wednesdays?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching in CFA 317 on Tuesday?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Getting Started in Electronics: An Experiential Approach?
Who is the speaker of the Distinguished Lecture?
What is the name of the class being offered at PCA on F from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM in room PCA 115?
How long does it take to complete a master’s program?
What is the name of the page that shares photos and videos related to Carnegie Mellon Athletics?
What are the names of the days when each production preparation class takes place?
 How long does fine-tuning take for the summarization models on one A40 GPU?
What is the course code for Voice for the Stage I class?
What is the policy for grades in transfer courses & PCHE according to University Policy?
What are some reasons why a Master's student might need extended or longer-than-standard completion?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
 What does MQTTS achieve higher than the non-autoregressive approach according to the text?
What is the significance of Nils J. Nilsson's contributions in information and telecommunications policy?
What is the name of the policy that Carnegie Mellon University has for financial assistance to student parents?
When does the Discourse Analysis course take place?
What is the course name and location of Internship in Clinical Psychology (6-12)?
What are the names of the courses held on Tuesday?
What are the names of the two cities that will be studied in Advanced Russian I - Berlin, Paris, New York, Harbin?
 How does MQTTS incorporate denoising in speech synthesis?
What does 'Franko' do at WEH 5201?
Where and when does DeSantis' Economics of Innovation Strategy take place?
What are the days and times for Programming for Game Designers and ETC Virtual Production: Lighting courses?
What is the purpose of the Language Policy in the MSAII program?
Who teaches MWF 12:00 PM - 12:50 PM in room PH A19?
 How does the method in the text automatically optimize the captions for informativity?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the three goals that the university wants to achieve according to this text?
What are the names of all courses mentioned in the text?
Who is generally considered as the final authority for assigning course grades?
 How does the hygroscopicity of aerosols relate to their composition?
 What is the end-to-end task success rate achieved by the best GPT-4-based agent in the WebArena environment?
How can students exercise good judgment in a challenging academic environment?
What is the name of the course where students learn about Opera Production History?
What are the names of the two pricing strategy classes mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the two production preparation sessions for Lighting Design and Sound?
What does 'DNM' stand for in the text?
When and where is Programming Usable Interfaces B held?
What are the days and times for Interaction Design for Human-Computer Interaction A?
What are the two options available on the 'Connect' page?
What are the names of the courses listed in the text?
What are the class times for Probability Theory and Random Processes?
Who should students contact for questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint?
When does the 'Who Wore What: When, Where, and Why' class take place?
 Which languages are included in the figurative language inference dataset created in the text?
 What grants supported Brian Yan and Shinji Watanabe according to the text?
What is discussed in section 3.2 of the text?
 What do conference organizers need to decide regarding the representation of paper content for similarity-computation algorithms?
 What are canaries in the context of model auditing, as described in the text?
 According to the context, what awards has Reese Witherspoon won?
Where and when was the course 'Exploring Fan Fiction: Origins, Impact, & Trends' held?
What are the dates and times of another lecture by Farag?
When is 'Mobile Application Design and Development: Mobile Application Development for IOS B' held at WEH 5336?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching Cycling Core?
What is the significance of treating LTI Orientation Faculty Research Talks seriously?
What are the course codes and their respective times for Physics I for Science Students?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes and instructors' names of all Machine Learning II classes?
Where does Prototyping Stories take place?
 What improvements were made to the framework proposed by DALL-E for text-to-image generation?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's role in teaching leadership skills?
What are the time and location of Designing Human Centered Software D?
What are Daphne Ippolito's research areas?
Where can a student find detailed information about how to apply for financial aid?
What is the course code for First Year Immigration Course?
What is the title of the course taught by Wang and Harchol-Balter?
When does Rhetorical Grammar take place at Wean Hall?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Farooqi and Seppi?
In which room is Writing for Information Systems Management 6.0 held?
Where is the Study Abroad program located?
In which room is Shaping Daylight Through Simulation and Virtual Reality being taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9:30 AM - 10:50 AM in TEP 1403, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How does Carnegie Mellon's career and professional development model work?
What are the names of the teachers for all classes listed in the text?
What is the name of the person who teaches Semester Support in Philosophy?
Who visited Rick and was impressed by his work?
What is the name of the course taught by Chiu E that starts at TBA and has no specific days mentioned?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What is the name of the academic calendar mentioned in section 6.7?
What was the final standing of Carnegie Mellon Women's Track at the UAA Indoor Championships?
Who is the speaker of this text?
 How does PPO update its objective during training?
What should I do if I forgot to submit a required document or form?
What is the name of the course taught by Mr. Denes on Monday and Wednesday at 12:30 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is one advantage of active retrieval augmented generation over standard retrieval augmented LMs?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching Graduate Project 0-99 A TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of Wolfe's class and what are its meeting times?
What is the course code for History Dissertation 5-36 A?
Where does Casale teach Health Law 4.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where will Shea's session on Negotiation and Conflict Resolution be held?
 What was the F1 score of ChatGPT compared to human gold labels?
 How did Dai et al. (2022) use consistency checking in their approach?
 What is the overall goal of SELF-REFINE in dialogue response generation?
Where is the music studies studio for Double Bass H located?
What is the course code for Music and Technology Project?
What is the schedule for the Lighting Design session of SOM 2?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the name of the course being taught by Andersen, Railing, Beckmann?
Where is the School of Computer Science located?
 What happens to the performance beyond a certain point (τp = 0.90) in the text?
How many programs can have their fees waived by the applicant under this scheme?
What are the days and times of Persuasive Design class?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the afternoon at PTC MPR Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How many representatives are there in the Carnegie Mellon Athletics Advisory Council?
How many times does each course take place?
How can a student request enrollment verification from Enrollment Services at CMU?
What are the days and times when Ms. Cody's Acting for Non-Majors class meets?
Who has priority for program core courses in MCDS?
What is the location of BXA Student Advisory Council?
What are the teaching times and location for Foundations: Critical Studies (60107) and who teaches it?
Where and when does Representation and Generation in Neuroscience and AI take place?
What is the LTI Colloquium?
What is the URL for the Policy Against Retaliation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of the Office of the Dean of Students Emergency Support Funding according to this document?
What is the course code for Intro to Health Psychology: Stigma and Its Consequences?
When and where is the 'Scenic Design: Explorations' class held?
What are the course codes for the two Dietrich College Senior Honors Thesis courses mentioned in this text?
What is the course code for AI Engineering?
Can courses from departments within SCS relevant to MIIS degree be counted as approved qualifying courses?
 What concepts are involved in the fine-grained factuality detection task?
 What allocation supported the work using Bridges2 system at PSC and Delta system at NCSA?
 What is the prompt used for the transitive rule template?
What is the name of the instructor teaching at N timeslot?
 What is the retention index of compound C13877913?
Where do the teachers teach?
Where is the Navigation course held?
 What is the main focus in supervised learning with paired data as illustrated in the text?
What is the purpose of having a separate section for Home events?
When is the Computational Molecular Biology and Genomics class held?
What does GSA offer graduate students at CMU?
What are the course names, instructors, and credit hours for the classes held on Tuesday, Thursday at 2:00 PM?
What are the names of the days when each course is offered in the schedule?
Which player has been with the team for the longest period of time?
What is the course name for Applied Microeconomics Seminar (course code: 90985)?
What are the names of the authors who conducted the seventh and eighth undergraduate research projects mentioned in the text?
Who are the authors of the paper 'Telling Humans and Computers Apart Automatically' mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times of Urban Design Studio II: Urban Systems?
 Which pre-trained models perform clearly better than SalsaNext and Cylinder3D according to the experimental results in the text?
When and where is the Foundations of Causal Inference class held?
What are the limitations of using AI tools for Statement of Purpose writing?
 Where will the real-world benchmarking be run as a part of the NeurIPS 2023 HomeRobot OVMM competition?
What is John Proctor's role in Production Prep for Costume Production?
What does Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 guarantee?
What is the topic of the Tools for Online Learning course?
What is the topic of Yilma's lecture?
According to the text, what is the purpose of using abbreviations like TBA and DNM?
Who wrote the computer science course that Shafi loved?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What is the name of the new program announced by the LTI?
In what city is the Macbeth performance held?
 What is one limitation of token-matching metrics like BLEU and CrystalBLEU in evaluating generated code?
Who are the instructors for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2) and John Proctor: VAR?
 What is the Miscellaneous category and how much of the changes does it encompass?
Where are the elective studios for violin, viola, cello, double bass, guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, and bassoon located?
How does the Student Academic Success team convene and coordinate outside of the classroom activities?
What kind of English proficiency tests are required for F-1 or J-1 visa holders?
What is the first major area of research in NLP technology?
Who teaches at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Saxophone NB?
What city does Instructor TBA E teach in?
What is the course code for ConLanging: Lrng. Ling.&Lang Tech via Constru Artif. Lang.
When and where does Mao teach Calculus II for Biologists and Chemists?
Can students take courses elsewhere while suspended from their college or department?
What is the course name offered by Ms. Yao on Tuesdays from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What are the names of the speakers in the lecture 'Principles of Computing'?
 What does the framework IRNet focus on in the context of Partial Label Learning with noisy labels?
 What is the goal of the PAR framework?
Who is the instructor for section 51785?
When does class C start and end?
What is the name of the person listed under Doctoral Thesis Research 0-99 A?
Did Alan Turing have a computer capable of executing his rudimentary chess program in 1950?
What are the locations and times of Stern's classes?
How can someone download a printer-friendly Visitor's Guide for LTI?
What are the names of the courses that start at 11:30 AM and 12:45 PM on Monday, Wednesday in Doha, Qatar?
What is the name of the course that was retired due to confusion?
When do students graduate under Standard Timing?
Is it necessary to finish the thesis by the end of the second semester?
Who is Ania Corbett?
 What is imprecise label learning (ILL)?
What is the name of Das' Future Lab - Science in the Cloud course?
What is E-Verify used for according to CMU’s Guidance?
When and where is Independent Study: Breadth held?
What facilities are available for purchase in the Cohon University Center?
Are there any recommended electives outside of SCS for PhD students at LTI? If yes, what are they?
What is the name of the class that teaches Data Management Fundamentals?
Who are the teachers for Costume Production and Lighting Design for Production Prep of Macbeth and when are they scheduled?
Where is the class 'Opie B' held?
What is the URL for the Policy Against Retaliation at the University?
 What are the objectives for training the path reranker in HotpotQA?
What was the first artificial intelligence program created by CMU computer scientists?
What are the days and times of M.S. Project 0-99?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Tuesday in room MM 307?
What type of players can attend the Men's Soccer Camps ID Camp?
What is the purpose of signing up for scheduled workshops at the library?
 What do philosophers distinguish value pluralism from?
How many pieces did Wu compose, according to the text?
 Why is Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding not frequently applied in NLP works?
How many ways are there for students to add a course after the ADD period?
Which option is not a way to share content?
What are the names of the three individuals listed under 1.2 Program Contacts?
What is the name of the high school that both Francis Parker and Justin Yi attend?
What is the course code for Urbanic Jr.'s MS in Data Analytics for Science Capstone Project Course?
What is the course name for '36901'?
What are the names of the authors listed in alphabetical order?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Financial Aid Guide on the Carnegie Mellon University website?
Who teaches the classes starting at 2:00 PM and ending at 4:50 PM?
 What is the main component of the software framework design mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors who teach on Monday and Wednesday at 06:30PM-08:50PM in DH 1211 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
 How is the inverse problem of parameter estimation of vocal tract models described in the text?
Who will be teaching the 'Lighting Design II' and 'Media Design' classes?
 Who periodically resided in Lakewood from 1881 to 1910?
Who are the instructors for the Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12,15 A4 course?
Who is the instructor for Physics 33104 Lecture 4?
What are the course codes for Electrical & Computer Engineering 18980 and Electrical & Computer Engineering 18990?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the Computational Biology MS Internship, Ph.D. Thesis Research, and Introduction to Computing for Creative Practice courses?
 What datasets are used in the experiments described?
What is the course title of Fang's Machine Learning in Production class?
In which room does GHC 4211 take place?
 What does FedSEP stand for?
What time do the Lighting Production and Sound Design classes start?
 What is the significance of the added parameter flexibility in GLoRA approach?
What should students do if they need immediate funds for emergency situations?
Who is the assistant professor at CMU mentioned in this text?
What are the key offices for graduate student support at this university?
Who should the student discuss his/her situation with if they require late graduation?
What are the course codes for Professional Issues in Biomedical Engineering and Sophomore BME Research Project?
What is the schedule for the Lighting Production session of SOM 2?
 What did the gains highlighted in the study show about the fine-tuned models?
What are the floors on which the Language Technologies Institute is primarily located?
What is the name of the singers ensemble that will be held at MM on TR from 05:30PM to 06:20PM?
What are the days and times of the courses offered by Crowley at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the three courses being offered at 10:00AM to 11:50AM on HOA 223?
When is Undergraduate Colloquium for Sophomores held?
What is the height of Chase Collignon?
 What is the indicative interval considered acceptable for GMRs in the inter-laboratory variability analysis?
Who teaches 'Chamber Music: Brass' course?
What is the name of the center that focuses on veterans and military community at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the significance of named-entities in the entity graph construction?
 How do the MMHAL-BENCH evaluation metrics differ from previous VLM benchmarks?
What is the purpose of having The Plaidvocates in CMU’s varsity athletics community?
Who are affiliated faculty members?
What does 'part-time' mean in this context?
What is Sean Welleck's research area in Natural Language Processing?
What are the objectives of PDEEC?
What does 'Headshot View' mean in this context?
Who is teaching the Lighting Design class and when do they teach it?
 How many Arabic instructions are part of the instruction-tuning set for the Jais-chat 13B model?
What is the name of the course taught by Larocca B?
What is the process for reviewing the University’s Academic Disciplinary Actions procedures?
 When was the instruction-tuning data collected for the Jais-chat 13B model?
What are the names of the courses offered by the Information Networking Institute?
 What skills are required for successful play in text-based games according to the text?
What is the location of Power System Operations class?
What is the name of the instructor for Introduction to Machine Learning for Engineers?
What is the course name for Akinci's first Advanced Independent Study class?
What is the focus of the information in the graduate handbook template mentioned in the text?
What is the title of Vocal Coaching 1.0?
Where should a graduate student go if they cannot resolve their concerns informally within their department?
 According to the results, what do the lexiprecision variants capture while increasing the ability to distinguish systems?
What is the comparison made between computer chess and drosophila in the article?
 How does the COS model achieve competitive QA performance against previous SOTA?
What are the names of the instructors teaching on Wednesdays?
What is mentioned in section A.2.4 of the given text?
How can a student find their assigned HUB Assistant Director?
Which team won the first PAC Men's Indoor Championship on Feb 23?
What are the names of the courses mentioned after 'Production Prep'?
How many hours per week does Ph.D. Proposal require?
What are the course codes and their respective class timings for D2 TR 02:00PM 03:20PM HBH 1007?
Where and when does the 'Advanced Data Analysis I' class take place?
What are the classrooms where each course is held?
Where is Liv LaFond from?
What is Tim Connelly's title in Women's Track & Field?
When should you take or retake TOEFL, IELTS and/or GRE for the application if you need to?
What was Berliner's reputation strong in?
What is the significance of 'supine round bracket' mentioned in Vladimir Nabokov's quote?
 What is the content of ketones in W1 and W2?
What is the topic of 'The History of Biostatistics'?
Who are the instructors for Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Every Day Carry & Community?
 Which language has the highest SEScore in the Afro-Asiatic language group?
What is the name of Hayes' class and what subject does it cover?
 How does the text recommend comparing metrics to ensure reliability?
When does the 2022-2023 academic year start for this doctoral program?
Who is the Alexander Waibel Professor at Language Technologies Institute?
What are the topics covered in Mr. Burns: Production Management and TBA E?
When does 'Climate Change Adaptation' take place?
 What is the purpose of AGKD and CGKD as mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the fourth course mentioned in the text?
Where is the Foundations of Software Management: 12.0 class located?
 What is the relationship between A-LOL and log-likelihood loss discussed in the text?
 What does NMAD quantify in the context of renewable energy variability?
 How is SHAP utilized in detecting bias in the Language Model (LLM) output?
What are the locations of all courses taught by Bukh?
What is the location of MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What changes were made in CTAT 4.2.0 to support HTML tutor interfaces?
 What hyper-parameters are set for TF-GridNet for 8 kHz sampling rate?
Where can graduate students find a summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name and instructor for Frederking 11936?
Where was Men's Tennis played on March 24th, and who did Carnegie Mellon play against?
What are the topics of the courses taught by Acquisti and Ciccone?
Who is instructing for Lonely Planet: VAR Directing A and Lonely Planet: Production Management courses?
What is the Master's program in Computational Data Science at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many credits does each course have?
Who is responsible for Lighting Production J?
What are the names of Lessem's classes at TEP 2700?
What is the location of Pittsburgh?
What is the purpose of late graduation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name for class code 62247?
What are the time slots for Production Prep in SOM 3?
 Which dataset in The Pile includes a mix of fiction and non-fiction books?
What time did Softball start against Brandeis?
What event did the men's golf team participate in on October 10?
What are the requirements to complete a Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies degree?
Who is the target audience for this website?
Who is teaching which course and when?
What is the course code for Kinetics and Mechanisms of Chemical and Enzymatic Reactions?
What are the days and times for Readings 3-15?
 In which benchmarks do OWSM models outperform Whisper?
Can direct transfers be made into the MCDS program?
What are the course codes, instructors, and meeting times for Chinese Calligraphy: Culture and Skills (WEH 5415) and Topics in Chinese Language, Culture and Society: Learning through Cultural Practices and Community (WEH 4623)?
What is the course code and title of the Management Consulting course offered on Wednesday from 6:30 PM to 9:20 PM?
What is the course code of the Figure Drawing class?
Where is the Athletics Office located?
 What English tasks are involved in the experiments mentioned in the text?
When does Peca teach Cyber Risk Modeling in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA on Thursday?
Who were Carnegie Mellon's opponents in the sixth and seventh games?
 Who are the authors of the paper on Group Normalization?
What is Graham Neubig's long-term research goal?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
Can PhD students do external internships during their study period?
 What did models that rerank utterances using a combined speaker-ToM score generally fail to outperform?
What are the names of the instructors for each class?
Is there a policy regarding consensual intimate relationships between undergraduate students?
What is the name of Ghani's course at History?
What is the role of the Office of the Dean of Students in coordinating the metacurricular experience at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of providing a hotline for reporting suspected violations?
 How are the pretrained source embedder and the randomly initialized target embedder denoted?
What is the location of Schneller E's elective studio?
What is the purpose of the Student Emergency Support Funding process managed by the Office of the Dean of Students?
What is the name of the directing class that takes place on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is the purpose of WiDs?
Who teaches How Things Work: Mechanics and Electronics?
 What grant supported the work mentioned in the text?
How do I obtain an I-20 form?
Where is the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) located?
What is the location of Offner's first lecture in the schedule?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching at TEP 2701 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the seating capacity of the CMU Soccer Field?
What are the names of the instruments being played in each class?
What is the purpose of a statement of Purpose in the application process?
 Which dataset is used as the main dataset for the AVSR task?
What is the title of the course being taught by Pavetti?
What percentage of the student-athletes earned a 3.50 GPA or better at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Fundamentals of Costume Design?
What was the final box score for Tartan Football team's game against Bethany (W.V.)?
What are the days, times, and location of Transforming Inspiration-The Museum Class?
What is the name of the teacher who teaches Elementary Chinese II?
What does 'manifest error' mean in the context of grade appeal?
What services are available during the weekly drop-in hours for Digital Humanities?
Where can students find information about appeal and grievance procedures for academic actions?
What is the location of the organization's main office?
Where is the main campus of this institution located?
What are the dates and times of the Honors Biochemistry class taught by Lee?
What are the days and times of Laird's classes?
What are the days and times for User-Centered Research and Evaluation B?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Theory 3-9 I, Independent Study in Research 3-9 J, and Independent Study in Performance 3-9 K?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Literature and Repertoire: Violin, Literature and Repertoire: Woodwind, and Literature and Repertoire: Trumpet?
What is the significance of The Link magazine's name?
What is Chenyan Xiong's email address according to the text?
 What is the architecture used for the quantizer in MQTTS?
Is there a separate academic integrity policy for doctoral courses?
How many successful Teaching Assistantships are required to satisfy the teaching requirement for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of all classes taught by Anderson?
What does the abbreviation 'LTI' stand for in the context of this text?
 How many task variations with a template can the models usually complete?
What is the name of Crowell's class?
What is the difference between ABD and ABD in Absentia (ABS)?
Where can you find additional details about the Policy Against Retaliation?
What is the policy for students pursuing a PhD degree as part-time students for all semesters of their program?
What is the conference winning percentage of Tartan Women's Tennis team for the 2023-24 season?
What is the name of the course taught by Thiessen at time A?
 What was the composition of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the high CTL vs low CTL groups in the study by Iqbal et al.?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Design Practicum' at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the advanced entertainment lighting programming lab?
What are the course names and their respective days/times in Optimization for Prescriptive Analytics?
In which sport did Carnegie Mellon win on February 24, 2024?
Where did Rashid first see his first computer?
What are the days and times when Chamber Music: Guitar class is held?
What is the course code for Guest Experience in Theme Park Design?
Who are the authors listed in alphabetical order, excluding the first and last author?
What forms are required for age 16 to adult attending camps at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who can apply for TA positions at MIIS?
What are the course codes for Elementary German I and II offered by Wells F in Pittsburgh?
What is the name of Frollini's last course in the given text?
 What is the role of exemplars and templates in in-context learning?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:40 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
 What type of results are presented in Table 2?
What are the three courses taught by Saeedi at Statistical Decision Making?
What are the course codes for each instructor in this schedule?
 What is the potential impact of this work on the ACL community, according to the text?
Where did WVU Last Chance take place?
What is the location of the Mathematics Colloquium according to the given text?
 How many hours of training data does the resulting dataset contain?
When does Shen teach Lec 1 at DH A302 in San Jose?
Can a student graduate under policies that were adopted after they entered the program?
Where are Eric Nyberg's office located?
Where does Laduke's Advanced Music Studies Studio take place?
What is the location of the PhD internship program held in room TEP 5200 at different times?
How can one contact filiates?
What is the course title of Stravers's US Grand Strategy class?
 What is the main purpose of the study mentioned in the text?
Who are the authors of the text?
Who are the instructors for Mortensen's classes?
What is the name of the teacher who teaches Matrix Theory at 10:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
At what time does Steenkiste's course start?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:00 AM on Monday in WEH 2302?
What is the course title of Managing Products and Brands, and what days and times does it take place?
Who is teaching the course 'Scenic Design'?
What is the title of the course that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 2:30 PM to 4:50 PM in room POS A35?
What are Eric Nyberg's research areas?
How many hours per week does Teaching Assistantship require?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the given time slots?
What is the course title of MI 348's Special Topics in Bioorganic and Bioinorganic Chemistry?
What are the course names and their respective days/times in Ethics and Artificial Intelligence?
 What percentage of the distilled data in VALUEPRISM is deemed high quality after verification with human annotators?
Who is the instructor for Dramaturgy?
What is the course code for Fundamentals of Business and Management?
Where was the UAA Championships held?
What kind of communication support does A.2.4.1 offer to students at CMU?
What are the credits for the Practicum course?
What are the days and times that class 17456 - Software Engineering Practicum is offered?
What is the course name for Internship Practicum?
What is the cost of applying to a program?
What is the main research area in cryptography that Shafi's recent work focuses on?
What is the name of the orchestra mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the speakers for the 'Sensor Based Systems' and 'Data Structures for Application Programmers' sessions?
What is the purpose of The HUB Student Services Center?
What are the names of the instructors for all three lecture sections of the Introduction to Deep Learning course?
What is the name of the internship for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD students from VAR A to TBA?
 What does SFT stand for in the context of hallucination in the text?
When is the final deadline for fall 2024 online applications?
What is the purpose of the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion?
What are the circumstances under which a final grade can be appealed?
Who was honored by the American Volleyball Coaches Association (AVCA) as All-Region?
 What is the baseline model used in the experiments?
 Is the jam on the bread made of strawberry?
 In which month do MERRA-2 BC column concentration values exceed those of GRASP/Component BC retrieval by the highest absolute difference and relative difference in the NCR region?
Who are the instructors teaching Ceramics for Beginners and Advanced Ceramics according to the text?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
What is the name of the course for Physical Education 69101?
What are the dates and times of each class in this schedule?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Movement and Dance III', 'German Diction', and 'Orchestration I'?
What was the first result showing how to do public-key encryption in a way that remains secure even if the secret memory containing the secret key is partially leaked?
What is the course code for each course offered in this schedule?
 What tool is incorporated into the VSCode demo to help users locate model generations that may have been copied from the training set?
What is the title of Information Networking Thesis?
What are the three courses being offered at 01:00PM to 01:50PM on HOA 225?
Who are the instructors for Analytical Performance Modeling & Design of Computer Systems?
What is the course code for Medical Ethics?
According to the text, what is the purpose of the smiley face symbol?
 What are the main contributions of the study according to the text?
Who are the instructors for CIT Leadership Independent Study?
What are the days and times of Erol's classes for Intermediate Microeconomics in TEP 2610?
What is discussed under Professional Development in section 6.8?
What is the purpose of this roster?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:30 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room NSH 3002?
What are the course codes for courses that start with 'ry'?
What is the purpose of directed study projects in the MIIS program?
What is an independent study course?
What is tied to making normal progress toward completing degree requirements for F-1 and J-1 students?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep?
Who is responsible for lighting design in the Production Prep class related to A Little Night Music?
What is the subject of Aguiar's class?
 What is the value of 0-shot for 0-shot?
 How can a feedback model be utilized to improve generation?
What are the class names and their respective days for the classes that meet at WEH 5304 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When does Undergraduate Seminar III take place?
 What is the main focus of Table 3?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
 What types of adverse weather conditions are included in the annotations provided by SemanticSTF?
 What is the objective of knowledge distillation in self-training?
What are the days and times of the 'Decision Analytics for Business and Policy' course?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: TBA 8: Scenic Design E?
What are the days of the week when The Emerging Ecological Worldview is offered?
What are the class timings and location of 'Metal-Environment Reactions'?
What are the names of the instructors listed in this text?
Who is the target audience of the Veterans & Military Community website?
Who are the authors listed at the end of the text and what degrees do they have?
 What is the facade of Lakewood like?
Why does Berliner believe it is important for students to learn something quantitative?
What is the course code for Study Abroad?
What are the class locations for Intermediate Spanish I and II?
When and where is Directed Research held?
 What kind of speech data does VoxPopuli provide for training?
What are the names of the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania who teach Doctoral Thesis Research 0-99 A?
Why do graduate students need to know about program lengths?
 What is the main purpose of DBpedia-INF dataset?
Which high school does Tyler Williams attend?
What is the purpose of creating an example-tracing tutor with formulas in CTAT?
 What is the ROUGE score for translating Japanese idiomatic sentences using the base model?
Why did Carnegie Mellon form a Mascot Identity Task Force?
What is the name of the course taught by Freeman E at PH 125B?
What is the purpose of safeguarding educational equity?
 What is the purpose of the parametric rectification linear unit (PReLU) activation in the proposed model?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Gellman 06705?
What did Clarke's early research do for Hoare's method?
What is the duration of an interruption due to temporary disability?
What is the URL for Carnegie Mellon's Dining Service website?
What office handles alleged misconduct of research at this university?
What is the winning percentage of the team's conference games in 2023?
What are the names of the classes that start at TBA?
What is the purpose of the 'Why MSAII?' section?
 What are some common incentives described by the participants in the NLP community?
What is the title of each student's independent study project in Supervised Teaching?
Where can graduate students find a summary of the university’s appeal and grievance procedures?
What is the course 'Music Research Methods' about?
Where was the author employed upon graduation?
Who is the instructor for the Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing course?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Foundations of Drama I'?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Kushnir in room 2612 on Tuesday and Thursday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM?
 What is the focus of the study mentioned in the text?
Where does Explorations in Craft: Soft Forms, Stable Structures take place?
What is the course name of 54833?
 How does the text achieve reproducibility in the web environment?
Where can students find more information about domestic partner benefits, eligibility for domestic partner benefits, registration instructions and forms?
 How many examples does the VisSpeech dataset contain?
What is the name of the course being taught in Production Prep: Love and Money?
What is the purpose of providing information about CMU’s Guidance for Completing the Form I-9 and E-Verify Requirements?
Who are the instructors for Chamber Music: Guitar and what time does it take place?
In which room does the 'Introduction to Engineering Design, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship' course take place?
What is the course code for 'Software Engineering Practicum'?
 How far was the centre of the pit positioned from the crack tip?
 How many data points are sampled to compute the OTDD?
Which instrument is taught at the 'Collaborative Piano' study program?
 Which institution released the CSTR VCTK corpus in 2017?
What are the academic policies for MCDS students?
Where is the official tartan of Carnegie Mellon University available?
What are the names of the two courses that start at 8:00 AM on Tuesday and Thursday?
 How many subreddits were sampled for the social forum platform?
 In which languages does CodeBERTScore achieve a comparable correlation with METEOR?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Production Prep: SOM 3: Production Management C'?
What is the name of the instructor teaching 'Critical Studies: Wanderlust: Art and Nature'?
When is the Thermal Design class held?
 What were the criteria for screening key volatile components?
Where was the SPIRE Midwest Collegiate held?
What are the course codes for Chinese Language and Culture: Modern China B and Spain: Language and Culture?
What are the course credits and title of Special Topics: Additive Manufacturing Processing and Product Development?
What services does the Office of International Education (OIE) provide at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the courses taught by Dworkin, Koda, and Instructor?
Is there a statute of limitations for completing an MLT degree at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can you find Alexander Hauptmann's office location?
What are the dates and times of the classes listed in the schedule?
Where are the Audience Engagement and User-Experience Design, External Relations: Arts Marketing and PR, and External Relations: Fundraising & Individual Giving courses held?
 What condition is required for UNSSOR to realize unsupervised speech separation?
When and where are Professor Muller's courses offered?
What is the purpose of an academic progress review in the MCDS program?
What is Boss?
What is the name of Gaynor's Ph.D. Seminar III course?
What was the solution that Shafi and Micali came up with for encrypting a single bit against a computationally limited adversary?
What are the days, times, and locations of the classes taught by Mandal?
How many independent study courses are taught by Krishnan?
What are the timings for the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty' held in HBH 1204?
What does it mean to log out from this website?
 What do the models discussed in the text represent?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Research?
Who is the instructor for Carnival Pavilion VAR (CFA 211)?
When and where does Harper teach his course?
What are the names of the instructors for BXA Studio (2nd semester) and Piano Performance II?
What are the days and times for Lecture 5 of Application Design and Development?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Psaris, Spatt at TCS 250?
Where will the UAA Championship quarterfinals be held?
What does A W stand for according to the given information?
What is the purpose of the Student Health Insurance Program administered by UHS?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Design Software Lab' in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the goal of the HomeRobot OVMM benchmark?
Is this calendar feed for a specific sport or sports team?
When is Special Topics: Maker Series: Intro to Metal Jewelry class held?
What is the course code for Introduction to Cryptography?
When and where is Performance 3.0 A3 being held?
What is the title of the junior recital that Aylmer is performing?
What are the names of the courses taught by Thiessen at the university?
What are the days and times for Interdisciplinary Exploration: Chinese Mythology and Animation Creation 9.0 A MW 02:00PM 03:20PM TEP 1024 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the dates and times of Introduction to Machine Learning for Engineers class?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study in Theory 3-9 A and Independent Study in Research 3-9 A?
What was the final score of the Men's Basketball game against #12 Case Western Reserve?
What is the location of the research on second language acquisition?
Where is the Experiential Learning II course held?
How can a student find their assigned HUB Assistant Director at CMU?
What is John Friday's job title?
What is the title of Pedercini's second class?
What are the names and course codes for the two Japanese classes listed?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the Double Bass, Flute, and Oboe studio performance classes?
 How does the proposed method aim to improve the speed of inference in automatic speech recognition models?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Friday at 2:00 PM?
What is the name of the course taught by Zhang?
What is the course code for Creative Writing?
 What can make a task more complex even if it is derived from the same template?
What is the significance of the number 20 in this context?
What is the purpose of the Veterans and Military Community website at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the benefit for Microsoft company when researchers are allowed to focus on something fundamental?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on TR from 12:30PM to 01:50PM at CUC ACTVY in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What behavior is observed for the WavLM model in Figure 13?
What are the main categories of programs offered by the university's School of Computer Science?
What are the names of the three classes that meet in the afternoon at GHC?
How many student-athletes from Carnegie Mellon earned fall academic honors in 2023?
What is CMU's career and professional development model based on?
Which option is not a way to share content?
What are the requirements for using the LTI computer cluster and other SCS services?
What does the university believe about individual and collective well-being at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the days and times of the class that meets in room DH 2210?
Who is the author of this article?
What does 'Connect' mean in the context of this text?
Who is the author of this text?
What are the course codes for Sophomore and Junior BME Research Project?
What is the course code for Accelerate Leadership Assessment taught by Hermann?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses taught by Rosenberg?
 What is the total number of dialogues in the ESTC dataset?
What is the location and time of Tonguz's lecture for Advanced Probability & Statistics for Engineers?
What are the teaching times and location for Foundations: Digital Media (60125) and who teaches it?
Who are the instructors for Exhibitions Management, Presenting Performing Arts & Festivals, Audience Engagement and User-Experience Design, External Relations: Arts Marketing and PR, and External Relations: Fundraising & Individual Giving?
Brianna Eriksen holds what position?
What is the purpose of withdrawing a degree when it has been falsified?
What are the names of the two independent study courses in directing?
 What is the function of 𝜇 in the context of the text?
What types of support funding are available for enrolled students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Tuesday at 12:30 PM in room WEH 6403?
What is the policy of departments offering courses with restricted enrollment?
When are the classes for Carnegie Scenic held?
What are the days and times for Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences?
What is the date of the softball game between Brandeis and Carnegie Mellon?
What are the services provided at Photocopies and Printers for Master’s students?
What is Shafi Goldwasser's fellowship status at the National Academy of Sciences?
How many hours does Graduate Thesis course last at Institute for Politics and Strategy?
What are the days and times when Ion teaches Programming Usable Interfaces?
What are the course codes for the courses listed?
 What are the two main types of fairness methods mentioned in the text?
In what room does Awodey teach his Causality and Machine Learning course?
What are the course names, instructors, and time slots for the courses offered at 03:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
 What is the significance of the Leipzig glossing conventions mentioned in the text?
What is the title of this handbook?
 According to the text, what does Figure 4 display?
 Why is monitoring antiviral susceptibilities of influenza viruses important?
What are the days and times of the Advanced Topics in Logic class?
What was Stehlik's study abroad experience like?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Doha, Qatar?
Where did the NCAA Preview take place?
What are the days and times of the classes listed in the text?
What is the course title for class HBH 1208 listed on Tuesday?
Where is the location of Cardenes' Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What did Andy Palay do with the power of computers?
 What is the purpose of Ion Mobility Spectrometry in the study?
What are the names of the three Ozdoganlar classes offered at the University of Pittsburgh?
How does the program accommodate busy academic schedules?
 What is the title of the paper by Changfeng Zhu, Heng Yu, Shanbo Cheng, and Weihua Luo?
When and where does the 'Steep by Steep: Investigation into Tea Culture' course take place?
 What are the two outcomes domains chosen in the psychosocial HRQOL area for the development of measurements in the text?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the text?
How many years of coursework do students participating in the dual-degree program complete at Carnegie Mellon?
 What did the analysis of changing synthesized target speech for direct S2ST models find?
What happens if the new and old advisors do not agree on switching advisors?
What is the purpose of soliciting student-athlete response to conference and NCAA legislation?
When does the Financial Data Science I class take place in New York City?
 What is the key difference between event typing and event linking?
What are the names of the teachers who teach in classrooms with letters?
Where are all these courses located?
Where can students find information about add, drop, withdrawal procedures and deadlines?
What is the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
 What type of imaging method is widely used for the diagnosis and assessment of HCC mentioned in the text?
 Which dataset is chosen for ASR in the study?
What did Mauldin claim he predicted before many other internet companies went public?
What are the two options available under 'Connect' section in Language Technologies Institute website?
What are the time slots for each production preparation class?
 What is the primary function of KALEIDO?
 What type of datasets were included in the natural language data used to train StarCoder models?
What approach does the author suggest for annotating data when time and data are available?
When was The Kiltie Band founded?
Who can take the TOEFL ITP Plus for China?
What does 'Print View' mean in this context?
Where is the International Relations class held?
Who teaches the Applied Threat Analysis course?
 According to the text, which filter yields the strongest performance on toxicity identification for every dataset?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Studio Recording Project 3-9 A, Independent Study in Music Education 3-9 A, and Independent Study in Music Entrepreneurship 3-9 A?
How many moves per second could ChipTest search in 1987?
 What is the primary objective of Multiple Instance Learning (MIL)?
What are the days and timings for Progress Reviews III?
Can students transfer courses from another institution into their PhD program at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of the course that fulfills the Psychology Research Requirement?
What is the name of the course taught by Galak?
What kind of cards are available for spouses and domestic partners of graduate students?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 8:15 PM to 9:30 PM, taught by Markovitz?
When and where was the Women's Tennis team playing on Thursday, September 29th?
What is the location of the Internship course?
What is Edmund M. Clarke's highest academic degree?
In which room does Parno teach Introduction to Computer Security?
What are the three sessions for Carnegie Scenic in SOM 2?
What is the name of the center that focuses on religious and spiritual life initiatives at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name and instructor's name for the class that takes place from 1:00 PM to 2:50 PM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
What is the responsibility of applicants regarding their application and supporting documents before the final deadline according to this text?
When does the Independent Study in Professional Writing start every day?
Where is the location of each instructor mentioned in this text?
Who is teaching the course 'Costume Design'?
What is the title of the course that takes place on MW 02:00PM - 02:50PM in room HOA 224?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Who teaches the lecture on Undergraduate Quantum Computation: 9.0?
 What decoding strategy was used for reranking in the study?
Who teaches the 'Database Systems' and 'Undergraduate Quantum Computation' courses?
 What is the 10-hour curriculum module designed for high school ELA classes?
What is the name of the researcher who uses AI to study storytelling at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where did Oddo R live before moving to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Costume Production on H days?
When does Deep Generative Modeling take place?
 What preliminary experiments on MS MARCO showed about increasing the number of queries with highest average log-probabilities?
When is the Literature and Repertoire: Saxophone class held at CFA ACH, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
What are the names of the courses taught by Arana G and Silverman H?
What are the days and times of the Cardio Fitness/Sculpt class taught by Stragar?
What are the names of the instructors teaching the Computational Biology MS Internship, Ph.D. Thesis Research, and Introduction to Computing for Creative Practice courses?
 How is the secondary transfer length of residual prestress related to concrete tensile strength?
What are the course codes and titles for Laboratory I, Laboratory II, Modern Analytical Instrumentation, Physical Chemistry (Thermo), Undergraduate Seminar IV?
What are the days and times of User-Centered Research and Evaluation: A class?
In which room and at what time does Fanti teach Foundations of Privacy?
What is the hometown and high school of Akira van de Groenendaal's opponent?
Who is Yiming Yang's research areas related to?
Who teaches the Applied Strategic Marketing class?
Where can MS students find computers in the university, as per the document?
Who teaches the class for Costume Production on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What are the research interests of Fernando Diaz?
What are the responsibilities of each department during Production Prep for John Proctor?
What are the names of the instructors for each listed production preparation course?
Can students consent to disclosure of their education records without FERPA authorization?
What happens if a student receives a C or better in a course that counts towards their core requirements?
 What models are compared to DSR-LM in the study?
How academic challenges help in evolving high standards?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:00 PM on Friday and teaches Improvisation?
 What were the beam size and CTC weight set to for AR decoding?
What is the name of the Undergraduate Independent Study 3-9 session?
What are the days and times for the course 'Special Topics in Music: Dance B MW 08:30AM 09:20AM WQE ST B'?
What is the course title that starts at 11:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room PH 125B?
What is the name of the course taught by Beuth at Special Topics: Additive Manufacturing Processing and Product Development?
What topic does the course 'Perspective' cover?
Who are the authors of this text?
 How is the English content translated to Arabic in the dataset augmentation process?
Where is the 'Black and White Photography I' class held?
What are the names of the instructors for the 'Opera Coaching' session?
When is Haidar's class held, what are the days of the week, and where does it take place?
Who are the instructors for The Beatles 9.0 course?
Who are they playing against in the last two matches of April?
 How did the use of a serum standard impact the reduction of inter-laboratory variation in the study?
 What models are proposed for learning embeddings that capture empathic similarity in the study?
What are the names and their respective instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 06:00PM in ANS B10, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When does Mathematical Methods for Chemists take place?
When and where is Movement and Dance IV class held?
What are the names of the courses taught by Bukh, Cummings, Flaherty, Gheorghiciuc, Hrusa, Jeffs, Kolliopoulos, Mackey, Offner, Tice, and Panagiotopoulos?
Where can students find additional information about staff, emergency phone locations, crime prevention, lost and found, finger print services, and annual statistic reports?
What are the names of all the instructors at the university, according to the given text?
 How is the translation quality assessed in the text?
In what city does the 'Technology Consulting in the Global Community' class take place?
Who teaches 'NoSQL Database Management' course?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
What is Alexander Hauptmann's title at the Language Technologies Institute?
Who are the instructors teaching each day for Production Prep: External Projects Stage Management?
 What is the role of the acoustic-phonetic weights in the PAAP Loss?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the days of the week and times for each class listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the policy mentioned in section A.1.6?
What is the course code of the class where Comedy Writing takes place according to this text?
 What F1 scores are achieved by the methods: always retrieving, always generating, and deciding randomly?
What is the location of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the names of all classes taught by Portnykh that start with 'J'?
What is the purpose of this webpage?
 What are the base conditions for the backward variable (β) in the TDT model?
 What is the total number of versions of the Whisper-style training model developed?
How many individuals are listed under 'Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Comp'?
What is the course code of the Special Topics: Statistical Methods in Finance?
What are the days and times of the Cardio Fitness/Sculpt class offered by Stragar?
In which room does the 'Developing Blockchain Use Cases' course take place?
What is the name of Cupkova's Advanced Synthesis Options Studio IV class?
How does the university strive to meet the changing needs of society?
What happens if a student receives credit for prior coursework completed at CMU or elsewhere?
 By how many BLEU points did the combination of sentence upweighting and kNN-MT increase automatic metrics on the idiomatic test set?
Who teaches RFIC Design and Implementation at GHC 4215 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What happens after submitting the thesis to PDEEC?
 What method do Tokpo and Calders (2022) use to tackle bias in text generation?
What is the potential of cloud computing according to Scott?
What is the role of the Department Head in relation to waiver requests?
Who teaches the course 'Introduction to Maya'?
What is the minimum number of units a student must take at Carnegie Mellon for their respective programs?
How are final grades changed?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the policy regarding non-CMU organized practices at Gesling Stadium?
 What does Unlimiformer aim to do with pretrained encoder-decoder transformers?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
What is the course title of Lightman's course?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
Why do MS students need a CS user ID?
What is the option for students who want to demonstrate their research potential?
When and where is the 'Production Prep: Put Your House in Order' class held?
Where can one find more information about Yonatan Bisk's work?
What are the days and times of Production Prep classes?
What is the purpose of BeWell@CMU e-newsletter?
What should students do if they believe their education records are inaccurate or misleading?
 What does a higher concept shift gap indicate for a model and language in the text?
Who are the instructors for the Elective Studio (Cello), Elective Studio (Viola), and Elective Studio (Violin)?
What should students include in their statement of purpose?
What is the location of Berntsen I in relation to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who will be part of the team in the SMART program?
What is the name of the endowed professorship that he received in 1995?
What is the policy regarding tuition and fees charged for doctoral candidates who are In Residence?
What services does Carnegie Mellon University offer for transportation?
 What factors determine the best exercise for an individual?
How many teams participated in the Guy & Jeanne Kuhn Invitational 'B' Team?
 What are the abbreviations HBP and MVI referring to in the text?
What are the days and times of 'Introduction to Command-line Tools' taught by Ledon?
When and where is MITS Capstone Project held?
When and where does Tsamitis's Distributed Systems: Techniques, Infrastructure, and Services take place?
What kind of research does this school focus on?
 What does the set ARNNT(X,C) represent in an RNN-T model?
 What sounds are the pharyngeal features relevant to?
What is the topic of the first class listed in the schedule?
What are the parking options available for graduate students on campus?
 What is the significance of incorporating vision-language pre-training in the Im2Sp model?
What are the names of the courses offered in Chinese language and culture at the University?
What is the main topic of this text?
What are the course codes for Advanced Data Analysis II and Reading and Research 1-49?
What are the names of each media design session for 'A Little Night Music'?
 How many hours of training data does each language in FLEURS have?
What is the name of the institute that offers a philosophy of mind course?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching section 51626?
When was the Carnegie Mellon University Athletics Hall of Fame established?
Who receives the submissions made through this system?
Who teaches the 'Intermediate Studio: Animation' course?
 What are the limitations mentioned in the text regarding the testing of SAMA?
What was the goal of CMU's 'three-M' machine, according to Raj Reddy?
Where and when does DeSantis' class take place?
When does Production Prep SOM 3 take place on Mondays and Tuesdays?
 What imaging feature had a hazard ratio of 2.928 in predicting intrahepatic recurrence in patients without peritumoral HBP hypointensity?
 What is the user trying to find in the second example?
What are the names of the instructors for Introduction to Asian American History and Science, Technology, and Society?
What is the main topic of the text?
Which option is not a way to share content?
 How many laboratories carried out MN using the WHO ELISA protocol?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:30 AM on Friday in PH A22?
 What type of research direction does the use of open-source datasets facilitate in the CHiME-7 DASR challenge?
Who are the people listed in this text?
 What challenges do autoregressive models face for large-scale NPC problems?
How soon after having or adopting a child can doctoral student parents take the Parental Accommodation?
What is the page number where this information can be found?
What is the course name, instructor, and meeting time for Kitchin's Creating Scientific Research Software class?
Does Carnegie Mellon provide an inclusive environment for all its programs?
On which date does Men's Golf play against Tiger Invitational 'B' Team?
 How is the interpretability of the speech representations showcased in the research?
 Where do they search for datasets in the task definition?
What is the location of each class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How many shuttles are provided for CMU students, faculty, and community by Parking and Transportation?
 What does the gradient-descent rule involve for optimizing objective A26 in the text?
What are the time slots and activities scheduled in the given text?
 What do Android developers consider as changes within the GI search-space according to Callan et al (2022)?
Who are the teachers who taught Keyboard Studies (Music Ed) in Practicum 3.0?
When and where are the classes of Elementary German II being held?
Where and when does Kesden teach Undergraduate Projects VAR A, B, C, D, E, F?
What is manifest error in grading?
What is the role of a letter from faculty to a student at the end of semester?
Where and when does Electronic Devices and Analog Circuits take place?
 What is the maximum relative difference in dust column concentration for the Eastern Tropical Atlantic (ETA) region?
What are the dates and times of the classes for 'Sender: Production Management'?
When and where do the 'Production Prep: Penelope' courses take place?
What is the main goal of Eberly's programs and services for graduate students?
What are the names of the instructors mentioned in the text?
What is the location of 'Cox-Boyd'?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C108 from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM on Tuesday?
What is the name of Woodruff and Anderson's Algorithm Design and Analysis course, and what are its class times?
 What are the precision and recall values for the sub-task trackers Macaw-11B and Macaw-large?
What is the course Architectural Agency about?
Where does Marcellino teach his class?
When and where is Drug Delivery Systems held?
How many people were involved in the recital as performers or instructors?
What is the standard length of time for graduate students to complete their program of study as outlined in the relevant Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the names of the instructors teaching classes at CFA KRESGE?
What are the main departments included in the Division of Student Affairs?
 How are the pseudo labels and the real annotated gold labels mixed for the model training?
Where is the Master of Computational Data Science Program located?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What are students' rights regarding their education records according to FERPA?
What is the title of Hime's course at NM Los Angeles?
 Who supported the work mentioned in the study?
What should I select under Residency Status if I don't have a visa but need one?
When is Computation and Data Science for Civil & Environmental Engineering held?
What instrument does Advanced Music Studies Studio offer classes for in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where did the Tartans play their last road contest on October 29, 2023?
What is the time schedule for directing class A for 'A Doll's House'?
On what days does Demirkoparan hold his class?
Who teaches Probability and Statistical Inference I?
What are the class times for Zhu's section of Practical Unstructured Data Analytics?
What is ORIC's role in assisting researchers?
Where is the study conducted?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Computer Science Pedagogy?
What does DNM mean in this text?
Where is Principles of Microeconomics located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times for Intermediate Spanish I 9.0 A TR 09:30AM 10:50AM PH A19D Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How are patches created in the search process of the framework?
What are the names of the two classes that start at TBA on Monday, Wednesday?
Who teaches lecture F at PH A18C?
 What does [R] refer to in the text?
 What is the purpose of stopping beams with a repetition or <eos> in the algorithm described in the text?
What is the significance of the word 'Home' in the text?
What is the deadline for applying for these scholarships?
 What were the offsets x and z at the end of the coarse alignment for the walnut sample?
 What evaluation metrics were used to assess the separation results?
What is the course code for Sustainable Design Synthesis Prep 1-18?
In which room does WEH 4625 take place?
What city does Brown B live in?
How many units of credit does a student receive if they are exempt from a required course?
What are the rates for parking permits at CMU?
What is the course name taught by Chick at B2 TR 08:00AM-09:20AM?
 According to the text, what does a consistent CASR despite varying CT indicate?
 In which journal was the research paper by Ma, L., Guo, Z., Zhang, X., Xu, Z., Liu, H., Zhang, L., Wang, Y. & Tai, Sakdinawat, A. & Attwood, D. published in 2010?
Who teaches Modeling Evolution in BH A36?
How many offices are listed under 'Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety' and what are they?
What is CTAT?
What is the time of the lecture 'Experimental & Sensing Systems Design and Computation for Infrastructure Systems: 4.0'?
 What is the name of the system workflow mentioned in the text that includes generating values, filtering by relevance, and computing relevance and valence scores?
What is the title of the course that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 3:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
What is the title of the section mentioned at the end of the given text?
What does 'without equivocation' mean?
Who is the instructor for the second class listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches A1 TR 8:00AM-8:50AM?
What is the course code and title of Production for Non Majors?
What city does the author Ventura L live in?
What is the location of the Internship course?
What are the names of the venues where each event is taking place?
What are the names of the speakers who participated in the event 'LEED: 6.0 LEED, Green Design and Building Ratings'?
 What is the purpose of using the CLIP text encoder in the approach?
How many courses can an MCDS student TA per semester?
 What is one of the key advantages of the speech translation results from this work?
What is the title of Fischhoff's lecture?
What is the policy on grades and grading according to this text?
What does TBA stand for in the context of the independent studies?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
 What was the accuracy achieved by the models on the test dataset?
What is the location of the Elective Studio (Guitar) taught by Ferla B?
What is the name of the unusual band mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Poetry Workshop'?
What are the names of the two courses that start at 6:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room CFA 206A?
When and where does the 'Figure it Out: Your Professional Identity and Story' course take place?
 Where was the paper Audioclip: Extending clip to image, text and audio presented?
What is plagiarism according to the Academic Integrity Policy?
What is the name of the center that focuses on veterans and military community at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is Early Completion in the context of Master's Degree Completion?
What is the phone number for students to obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
What are transcripts in the context of university resources?
 What is the main focus of the experiments on NAS-Bench-360?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
What is the cost of applying to the MCDS program by the early deadline?
What is the location of each student's junior recital?
 What baseline is used with the same hyperparameter configuration as ORCA?
 What does Prefix and prompt tuning enable in pretrained LLMs?
What kind of assistance does the university offer for individuals with disabilities?
 What does the statistical analysis in the study show about the impact of OCR on human transcription time?
What are the names of the courses that start at 7:00 PM on Wednesday in CFA A6?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in PTC MPR on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
How many courses are listed in the text?
What is the course code and title of the Advanced Arabic I class offered at TBA in room WEH 8427?
What is the name of the department where the Language Technologies Institute is located?
 What causes changes in cut-in and ramp-up wind speed days under future scenarios?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in this schedule?
 What issue do techniques like LC compression method attempt to resolve?
 How does low albumin level impact lung cancer prognosis?
When does the Advanced Bagpipe and Drum Band meet in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of Seminar on the History of Causal Inference?
Who are the instructors teaching at Pittsburgh location on Tuesday and Thursday?
Who is the instructor for CSD PhD Elective?
Who is teaching Advanced Research in Hispanic Language & Culture and when?
Which courses are taught by Maksoud Botcha?
What are the two main categories of courses included in the MCDS Course Map?
What is the course code for Vocal Methods?
 How does the output score in Code Optimization change after three iterations of refinement?
What is the main purpose of the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How is the selection ratio adjusted in the second heuristic for handling under-predicted mentions?
What are the instructors for Dramaturgy?
 What does the depth of colors on the fingerprint spectra indicate?
What is the course code of Game Design, Prototyping and Production?
What is the course name and location of Internship in Clinical Psychology (3-12) offered?
Who makes up the Comissão de Acompanhamento Tese (CAT) that analyzes and recommends the student's thesis proposal?
Who are the authors of this text?
 What is the function Lφ(s) used for in the subgoal representation learning loss?
Where does the 'Health Systems' class take place?
Where can you find more information about this project?
 What is a limitation of the IPA model mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the professors teaching in SH 238 at different times during the day?
What is the purpose of the Student Health Insurance Program administered by UHS?
What is the name of the person teaching the 'Concert Lighting Design' course?
 What are the major types of lung cancer mentioned in the text?
What is the title of the dissertation research course?
What is the office number of Yiming Yang?
What is the course code for Advanced Research in French & Francophone Language & Culture?
Where and when does Thomson's Theatrical Lighting Design class take place?
What are the names of the courses being offered at PCA 118 and what are their respective durations?
Where can students review the university’s policy on privacy rights?
Where can students find parking instructions for their vehicles on campus or to off-campus venues?
Who was the provost at Carnegie-Mellon when the spin-out happened for a School of Computer Science?
What is the maximum level number for graduate level course in School of Computer Science?
Does Carnegie Mellon pay a dependency allowance to LTI MLT students with children?
What are the production preparation sessions for Costume Design?
What is the location and time of the course 'ECE CO-OP 0-3 A TBA DNM DNM'?
Who teaches Physics II for Biological Sciences & Chemistry Students in W UTR 04:00PM - 05:15PM?
 What is the function of a Transformer encoder layer?
What are the course codes for Supervised Reading in Computational Physics and Astrophysics?
What are some ways in which the Tartan Athletics Club communicates major initiatives to university stakeholders?
What was the result of the Tartans' match against Division I Saint Francis?
What are the course codes of all courses offered at PH A18B?
What is the purpose of using Formulas in CTAT?
What is the purpose of University Police at Carnegie Mellon?
How can students get assistance from Computing Services?
 What is the automated low-rank training approach introduced in the paper?
Where is the Parking and Transportation Services office located?
What is the requirement for maintaining full-time status at MCDS?
What are the program options discussed in section 4.1 of the text?
What are the names of Cervesato and Kohlbrenner's classes?
 How does the RNN-LM compute the hidden vector for each token?
Who are the authors of the paper 'CAPTCHA: Using Hard AI Problems for Security'?
Who is the Executive Assistant to the AVP and Director of Athletics at Carnegie Mellon University?
When is the second day of the Golfweek Invitational at San Destin Resort in Florida?
Who are the performers of Chamber Ensemble: Low Brass B?
 What type of sampling was used for the score distribution in Figure 13 for WMT22 ZH-EN?
Where will their match on Friday, March 1st be held?
 How do E2E models perform in low-resource conditions according to the text?
What was the result of the team's tenth match against Westminster (Pa.) at the Carnegie Mellon Quad?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Mondays and Wednesdays from 7:00 PM - 8:20 PM in HOA 160, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
Where is the Science and Engineering Teaching Internship located?
What are the names of the courses taught by Malen in the given text?
When and where does Interpreting Global Texts & Cultures take place?
What are the names of the speakers and their respective topics in Los Angeles, California?
What are the three different time slots for Acting for Business I class?
 Which product, MERRA-2 or GRASP/Component BC retrieval, has a higher BC column concentration over the SUS region from March to November?
What is David Mortensen's email address?
Who are the students for Junior Recital 1.0 AA (57598)?
 What differentiates the approach of this work from Ma et al. (2020) in the evaluation of low-latency speech translation?
How often do they send an email to all graduate students?
What are the names of the courses for Scenic Design and Lighting Production in Production Prep: A Doll’s House?
Where can students find more information about Family and Dependents Resources?
What are the class timings for Modern Regression?
What are the services provided by the Office of the Dean of Students?
What is the name of Joe-Wong and Joshi's courses?
When was the Women's Soccer team selected for NCAA Championships?
What are the course codes and instructors for all classes offered by Skirpan, Dabbish in GHC 4307?
Who teaches SH 238 at DH 1212 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What does a transformer layer consist of?
 How did the authors propose to solve the issue of increased insertion errors in TDT models?
Who is the instructor for MIIS Directed Study 1-48?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Monday at 8:30 PM in Technology Strategy?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Machine Learning Systems, Database Systems, Algorithm Design and Analysis, Undergraduate Complexity Theory, and all sections of Computer Science 15442?
What is the role of health promotion specialists at UHS?
When does the Production Prep: SOM 3 class meet for the Stagement Management and Scenic Design courses?
Where should students go to make arrangements with Student Health Services for their insurance?
What is the name of the percussion ensemble that will be held at Stiles on MW from 02:00PM to 04:50PM?
Who are the instructors teaching the 'Introduction to Graduate Studies' course at Bain, Skovira, and Daly?
What is the policy on Intellectual Property according to the handbook?
 Name three aspects in which multi-modal LLMs are evaluated.
Where is the Athletics Office located?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Introduction to Machine Learning for Engineers?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
Who should international students consult if they are considering early completion or longer-than standard completion of their degree?
What instrument does Almarza study at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
 What optimizer was used during the training process?
What is mentioned in the text about self-exploration?
When and where is Agile Methods taught?
What are the three courses listed in this text?
What is the Institution Code for submitting GRE scores to the School of Computer Science?
On what date did the NCAA Championships take place for Men's Golf?
Where can you find full text of the University policies?
What is the role of the Student Academic Success Center?
What is the name of the course taught by Newstead in Lecture 2?
On what surface is Gesling Stadium's playing field?
What kind of statistics does the OIE provide for international students at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the names of the three students who will be presenting their thesis research and writing in the field of Video and Media D?
What is the author's opinion on the idea of a 'humor-marker'?
Where can graduate students find information about parking and availability at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What hyperparameter search technique was used for Jais?
What are the names of the instruments being played in each event?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for classes HBH 2008, Goranson 94885, and Rao?
What are the class names for Tomprou?
When and where is Advanced Topics in Multimodal Machine Learning held?
 What sampling method was used during inference for the knowledge-grounded dialogue task?
What was the previous best finish for Carnegie Mellon University in the Division III Learfield Directors’ Cup standings?
What are the names of the people who teach F's class?
What is the course code for Algorithms and Advanced Data Structures?
Is it mandatory for MLT students to complete a thesis?
Who are the three people mentioned in this text?
What are the names of the courses offered on Tuesday and Thursday from 2:00 PM to 4:50 PM?
 Which encoders are used for Bank77 and CLINC in the comparison with SCCL and ClusterLLM?
What is the name of the studio mentioned at the end of the text?
 What is the approximate cost per hour for using the Google Cloud machine for experiments?
What are the residency requirements for a PhD program at Carnegie Mellon?
Who is the instructor for Materials Science & Engineering 27201?
 Which datasets are used for image classification tasks?
What are the days and times when Gradowski teaches AI, Society, and Humanity?
When is Motley's class held?
Who matched students with research advisors at Carnegie-Mellon University and when did this practice begin?
 What is the probabilistic message passing algorithm based on in the discussed scenario?
Who teaches Special Topics: Designing Resilient and Sustainable Infrastructure?
When does Zhang F teach?
What is the name of Mark Martinez's hometown?
 What issue is highlighted regarding current agents in the text?
In what years did Herbert A. Simon serve as a professor at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who did the Tartans play at home on October 22, 2023?
What should students do before or during registration for Parental Accommodations?
Who can attend the professional development programs offered by AVPGE?
 Why can models that employ CEDS inventory not successfully capture the practical descending tendency?
Who teaches Graduate Reading and Research?
What is the name of the instructor for Chemistry 09050?
What are the types of independent study courses held in room DNM at different times?
 Why is it considered that language A is more efficiently tokenized than language B?
What is the location of the second class?
What is the mission of the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What are the two tasks addressed in the text?
What are the names of the courses mentioned in this text that start with 'Independent Study' and end with a number?
Where and when will the Large-Scale Multi-Media Analysis course be held?
What are the names of the people listed after 'Zhao' and their respective titles or positions?
Who are the instructors for Senior Thesis 3-18?
What are the names of the instructors listed under each number?
 What are the two main components of tomographic alignment mentioned in the text?
What are the three rehearsals and performances listed for 'MTWRF 06:30PM 10:30PM TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania'?
 What technique was used for the end-to-end singing voice synthesis in the research?
When are grade reports mailed to individual students by the university?
What are the instructors' names for Production Prep: Grown Ups: Sound Design and Mr. Burns: Dramaturgy?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in PCA 305 by Eshelman at 2:00 PM on Mondays and Wednesdays?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon Code?
What are the names of the professors teaching Physics III: Modern Essentials?
What is the purpose of the policy mentioned in the text?
When is the class 'Medical Ethics' held?
What are the possible accommodations for students whose anticipated delivery date falls during a semester?
What are the time slots for Lighting Design for Love and Money?
What are the names of the courses taught by Ito in this text?
What is the website for The WORD in Carnegie Mellon University?
 Which paper presents the Complete & Label domain adaptation approach?
Who is the instructor of Comprehensive Review (Analysis) 1.0 offered by Ito?
What is the location of Instructor TBA E's internship?
Where can students find more information about the Language Technologies Institute?
What is unique about Berliner's work according to Schaeffer?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered at NSH 1305?
 What is the focus of the work by R. De Mori, F. Bechet, D. Hakkani-Tur, et al. as mentioned in the references?
 What is noted about the performance of advanced algorithms compared to the TPMS algorithm?
When and where does this course take place?
Where are English 76050 and Study Abroad located?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What does each letter in the abbreviation 'DNM' stand for?
What is the significance of SCS faculty certification in satisfying the Presentation requirement?
Who are the students in Wenner 80496 Undergraduate Independent Study Mini VAR A?
What services does Computing Services provide for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members, and staff members?
What is the course code for Superheroes & Identity in Popular Culture?
What are the names of the courses taught by Van Hoesen EA, Cardenes EB, van der Sloot EC, Wu ED, and Instructor TBA D?
What time does the Costume Crafts: Fabric Modification course start?
What are the days and time for Advanced Academic Skills for Engineers II?
What does TBA stand for in this context?
What is the name of the center that promotes student involvement and civic engagement?
In which year was he inducted into the AI's Hall of Fame by Intelligent Systems ' AI's?
What is the name of the course taught by Rajkumar at what time on Tuesday?
What is the name of the course being taught by the instructor who teaches on S 11:00AM - 03:00PM?
What is the location of Rosselot-Merritt's class?
What is the name of the instructor for Wireless Networking and Applications?
Who is Edmund Clarke?
What does the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook provide access to?
Where can one find more information about the Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the purpose of generating a lattice output in addition to the N-best output in ASR systems?
 How is the input text token sequence denoted in the text?
Where is the seminar being held?
 What is the difficulty in evaluating machine translation?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
 How does OpenMatch-v2 improve efficiency in conducting large-scale experiments?
 What do the transitions from FedAvg to FedPA/FedEP at the 400th round signify?
 How was the distribution of strain gauges shown in Figure 2?
What is the name of the opera production that will be held at Prendergast on MW from 02:00PM to 03:20PM?
What are the key skills a student needs when faced with a research problem in Information Science and Technology?
Who are the instructors teaching on the given date and time?
 Which phonemes did the model noticeably outperform the baseline on?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Modern Biology Laboratory?
Who established Carnegie Tech's first Computation Center?
What is the subject and duration of 'Music in the Urban School' course?
What is the name of the university where these athletes attend school?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Introduction to Convex Optimization?
What is the name of Pavetti's class on Embedded Systems?
Who will moderate the event 'SCS25: Robotics at the Tipping Point'?
Who are the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 7 and 9?
What are the course codes for the three courses taught by Professor Branstetter?
What is the name of the course taught by Telmer?
 What is the operator Hf in the context of acoustic wave propagation through the vocal tract?
Can the statute of limitations for recording units be extended?
What is the name of the course that teaches about integrated product development?
Who teaches Arabic Calligraphy: Culture and Skills at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What was the reason for protest from MCS administrators and others across campus when Habermann and Jordan proposed creating a School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times when Music Skills II class is scheduled?
Who was the A.M. Turing Award laureate in this text?
What are the programs that do not follow any early deadlines and have an application fee of $100?
What is the course name and instructor for Machine Learning for Business Analytics?
What are the procedures and deadlines for adding, dropping, or withdrawing from courses?
 What type of data does the text mention using for building speech synthesizers?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in Sender Sound Design?
What is the location and time of da Silva's lecture for Data Science for Software Engineering?
Why did Hans Berliner not join the Hitler youth?
What are the topics discussed in the Advanced Topics in Machine Learning and Game Theory seminar at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays?
What are the course codes for Russian Studies Thesis and Cultural Studies Elective - Graduate Level?
Who teaches Keyboard Studies (Graduate) at Pittsburgh University, B TBA DNM DNM location?
What is the mode of study for this program?
What is the schedule for the course 'Want to be a Mother Media'?
Who does LTI collaborate with?
What are the class timings for Experimental Design for Behavioral & Social Sciences?
 How is implicit query formed in the text?
Who is the instructor for Sullivan, Shields' music studies?
Who are the instructors teaching Professions for SCS students in PH 225B on MWF at 11:00AM?
When does 'Project Research' take place?
Where is Digital Art Studio A (Entertainment Design Studio) held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What approvals were obtained for conducting the study?
What event did the Tartans impress in during the fall semester of 2023?
Where is the search form located on this website?
What happens if a MIIS student does not make satisfactory progress each semester?
What are the names of the courses being taught at WEH 5403?
What is the name of the course taught by Brasier in 03621 section?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
What are the course codes and titles offered in the Mathematical Modeling of Environmental Quality Systems class?
Is it mandatory to submit a video about yourself and your interest in the MCDS program?
What is the course code of the class starting at 6:30 PM on Tuesday, Thursday?
What are the course codes, titles, days of the week, and times offered by Pennsylvania Gounaris?
Who conducted research in Lisbon, Portugal?
When and where are Stagecraft Rigging (2 units) D1 held?
In which location does Lee A T teach Biochemistry I?
When is 'Urban and Regional Economic Development' class held?
 Which search engine is used as a retriever for datasets that rely on knowledge from the open web?
What is the purpose of the Capstone Project?
What is the name of the instructor for Scenic Design for Live Spaces?
When is Production Prep: Love and Money: Lighting Design I class held?
What are the names of the speakers in this text?
What are the days and times of the Molecular Modeling and Computational Chemistry class?
What are the days and times when course 11633 is offered?
What is Jacquie Hullah's role in the university's athletics department?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product over the Arabian Sea (ARA) region?
 What is the purpose of weight refining for downstream adaptation?
 What is the Yes (%) probability for the MiniGPT-4∗ 7B model in the Popular category based on the results presented?
What additional level of support does the Student Support Resources team offer for students?
What is the course code for 'Machine Learning with Large Datasets (Undergraduate)'?
What is Berliner's opinion on playing chess?
 What method is used to evaluate the heatmap scores for TSP decoding according to the text?
Where and when does Readings and Discussions in Fiction, Culture, and Criticism take place?
Where can students find information on their academic actions, honors, or decisions based on their grades?
What are the course codes for the two classes starting at 6.0 A2 TR?
What is the title of the course taught by Downs in DH 1117?
What is the name of the first instructor listed?
What is the role of academic integrity in maintaining a proper conduct?
Where and when does Data Science Capstone Research take place?
 What does the training criterion for AED models lack in comparison to other models?
What is the title of the capstone project that takes place on Tuesday and Thursday from 7:00 PM to 9:50 PM in room 2202?
How can someone contact the Language Technologies Institute?
What happens if a student completes prior coursework at Carnegie Mellon or elsewhere?
What is the date of Carnegie Mellon Invitational?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes that start between 9 PM to 10 PM?
What are the time slots for the two classes with 'Production Preparation' in their names?
 How do frameworks following the Static design paradigm operate?
What is the purpose of extending search engine architectures to support large, centralized, universal repositories of affordable and easily used scientific data?
Where can readers find more HCII news?
 According to the disclaimer, whose opinions and data are solely reflected in the publications?
 Did the combination of sentence upweighting and kNN-MT improve accuracy on literal sentences?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Electronic and Experimental Music?
What are the class names and days for Fitzsimmons J3?
What are the days and times of Mayshle 76107?
 What are some of the common datasets used for fine-tuning DeltaLM models?
What are the class times and locations for Weight Training A4's Racquetball course?
What is the subject of each class listed in the text?
What is the difference in number of days between the first and last date on the Carnegie Mellon Athletics Schedule?
What is the name of the person who wrote this thesis?
 How did κccn relate to particle size at various environmental sites in China?
Who can you contact for more information about the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the course codes for the courses offered by Rawn at HH 1107?
What are the names of the speakers and their respective topics in Los Angeles, California?
When and where does Risch teach Lec 4?
What are the course codes for GHC 5229 and MI 355?
What was the result of the match against Sacred Heart during the Spring Break in Orlando, Fla.?
What did Berliner point out about Watson's performance during 'Jeopardy!'?
What is the main message of this text?
What is the location of each session in the given schedule?
 What is the performance difference between Funnel Transformer and BERT for inference?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Tuesday at 11:00 AM in room HBH 2009?
Which department is responsible for computational biology at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
What is the course code for 'Regulation of Internet Edge Platforms'?
What are the days and times of Solfege I class?
What is the duration of the standard timing option in MCDS program?
Where was the second course conducted?
Who founded Carnegie Mellon University?
What happens if a student takes an undergraduate course pass/fail?
How can one collaborate with the MCDS program?
Which option is a way to share information through the internet?
What is Alexander Hauptmann's email address?
Who teaches Theory Proficiency Test at Pittsburgh University?
What are the days and times for the class 'Percussion Methods'?
 What is the total training loss formula mentioned in the text?
How long does it usually take for an admission decision to be made after applying?
What are the names of the courses held on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
 What is one limitation with working on music recommendation according to the text?
What is the relationship between innovation and technological advancement?
In what language does Nassif teach Topics in Modern Arabic Language, Literature and Culture?
What are the prerequisites for students interested in the Language Technologies minor?
Where is the class 'Design of Artificial Intelligence Products' held?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in the given schedule?
Who are the instructors for the course 36901: Pre-Research Seminar?
 Why is keyphrase clustering using GPT-3.5 in the instruction-only setting better than Instructor?
Who teaches 21375?
Who teaches Investment Analysis: A course in Doha, Qatar?
 What is the advantage of using Fusion Approaches in E2E ASR?
 In terms of naturalness, what do the authors observe as the model capacity grows for MQTTS?
 What is the goal of the adversary in estimating the value of k?
How can one contact Graham Neubig?
 Why does the aerosol extinction coefficient decrease between 13:00 and 18:00 in summer in Beijing?
What is the name of the course that focuses on Keyboard Studies for graduate students taught by Larocca in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where and when is How Music Works: An Affective History being held?
On which date did the Tartans travel to Chicago for the UAA Championships?
Who is the intended audience for this information?
What are the dates and times for each of Penelope's production prep classes?
What is the purpose of BeWell@CMU e-newsletter according to the given text?
 Why is testing for quantifying antibodies in human sera not assessed in the ECDC/WHO EQA?
When and where does Directing for Film 9.0 take place?
What is the course name for W MW 04:00PM - 05:15PM?
What is the name of the instructor for Elective Studio (Alexander Technique II)?
What is the course code for Chemical Research?
How can one contact Graham Neubig?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Interaction Design Fundamentals: Interaction Design for Human-Computer Interaction C'?
What is the definition of a qualifying master’s course for MIIS students?
What are the names of the instructors for Applied Cryptography?
Where can I find information about all mentioned library locations and hours, online resources, and FAQ’s?
What are the names of the two Internship courses mentioned in the text?
What time does Black American Music Seminar start and end according to the schedule provided?
What happens if an MCDS student receives an Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) deemed an infraction by the MCDS committee?
What are the names of all the classes that Raghunathan is attending in Pittsburgh?
What is the main purpose of the Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name for Model Theory I?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the title of the course that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room WEH 7500?
Who are the instructors for 57793 Comprehensive Review (Analysis) 1.0?
What is the purpose of section 6.1.7 in the text?
 According to learning theory, what does a higher VC dimension imply?
 What do Figures 24 and 25 show in the text?
 What method is employed to identify the optimal configuration for each layer in GLoRA?
What are the days and times of the three courses mentioned in the text?
Where is the Independent Study Interaction Design Studio 1-12 A held?
Which player from Pennsylvania, USA is playing in position F with the number 10 on her jersey?
How do I obtain an I-20 form?
What is the course code for Quality Management?
What is the name of the city where all these psychology courses are located?
 What is the max sequence length used during training of the reader model?
How can appointments be made at University Health Services (UHS)?
Who is the instructor for Moral Psychology?
How does GSA fund its activities?
 What are some direct efficiency metrics that have been incorporated into neural architecture search objectives?
What are the names of the two run crew groups mentioned in this text?
What is the legislation previous to Law 49/2005 of 30 August referred to in the admission requirement?
 How is the joint embedding cjoin produced in the model architecture?
Who are the instructors for Interdisciplinary Independent Study: Topics in Photography?
What information can be found in The WORD at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title of the course that starts at 6:30 PM and ends at 10:30 PM on Tuesday, Thursday?
What are some of the shared responsibilities of members of the Carnegie Mellon University community?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Root in Special Topics: Generative Leadership?
What are the requirements for submitting a TOEFL score for MCDS and MHCI admission?
What should be of passing quality when an instructor awards an 'I' grade?
Where does the fourth class take place and who teaches it?
What is the duration of the second and third projects mentioned?
Why is Mauldin proudest of his achievement with Lycos?
What is the title of the course offered on Tuesday from 8:00 PM to 9:30 PM?
How many sections are there in this text?
What happens if an international student fails to maintain full-time status?
What is the course code for User-Centered Research and Evaluation Lecture?
What is the name of the institution that offers Linear Algebra for Data Science course?
 What was the criteria for acceptable duplicate ratios in the intra-assay variability analysis?
What is an 'I' grade in this context?
What is the duration of the research on second language acquisition?
Where was the game between #12 Case Western Reserve and Carnegie Mellon held on Sat, Feb/24?
What are the names of the two speakers in the Carnival Gateway Project Management session?
 What license was applied to the Accepted Manuscript version for open access?
 Why did directly sparsifying the teacher vectors result in lower performance?
 What impact does the choice of pretraining source domains have on downstream performance?
What is the name of Gloria's class in Sound Design?
What are graduate students expected to do when they have concerns that cannot be resolved informally?
What are the three different times for 'Lear: Scenic Design E'?
Who is the instructor for Introduction to Music Cognition Research 9.0?
 What is the main difference between fine-tuning and prompting with large-scale pretrained models?
 What types of instances were used for the experiments in the text?
What were the names of the teachers who taught at WEH 5415 during the given time period?
Will I be considered for financial support if I am admitted into a master's program?
What are the days and times when 'MAAD Advanced Synthesis Options Studio I' is offered?
What are the names of the courses taught by Crummy?
What is the name of the course that Quesenberry, Mertz, Moussawi, Hagan, Poepping, Instructor TBA J and Tu have taken with Heimann A2 as their instructor?
What is the course code for Movement I?
What is the course code for Management Consulting?
 How does the thickness of the steel affect the stress intensity factor in the later stage?
Who enrolls MIIS students into the LTI Orientation Canvas course?
Where is Savannah Xu from and what high school did she attend?
Where and when does the 'Intermediate Deep Learning for Engineers' class meet?
How often are tutoring appointments offered for students at the Academic Success Center?
 What did the proposed methods show in terms of MOS for each language?
Does Carnegie Mellon University offer doctoral programs in computer science? If so, how many?
When does Special Topics: Maker Series: Intro to Wood Working start and end?
What are the days and times of Media Design L?
How many hours of observation is student Dell assigned to do?
What are the days, times, location, and instructors for class A4 TBA - TBA in Washington, District of Columbia?
When does Sciannameo's Musical Theatre on Stage and Screen class take place?
What is the course code and instructor's name of the course offered on Monday at 01:00 PM?
What is the accommodation protocol for students who are not female but need time off due to pregnancy?
What are the names of the professors teaching in POS 147 at different times during the day?
Where can graduate students find information about parking policies at CMU?
What are the different types of faculty mentioned in the text?
What are the days and times when the Capstone Project VAR A takes place?
Who is the author of Houser, Salvador Masters Project?
What is the maximum duration of the students' stay at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Ravi?
What is the deadline to complete Form I-9 after starting a federally funded project?
What is the purpose of MIIS Graduate Student Handbook mentioned in the text?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for Readings in Clinical Psychology, Readings in Developmental psychology, Readings in Cognitive Psychology, Reading in Social Psychology, and Research in Psychology?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
 How is the reward-and-slash design deployed in a private blockchain?
Where was the Paul Short Invitational held?
 How is the average word length measured?
What is the location of Independent Study: Area 1-48?
How many special-purpose chips were in Deep Blue?
What is the location of the lecture on Interaction and Expression using the Pausch Bridge Lighting?
How many hours does Undergraduate Internship course last at Institute for Politics and Strategy?
What is the federal law that protects student privacy rights?
What is the name of the handbook mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the instructor for Eurhythmics I?
Who are the teachers mentioned in this text?
According to the text, what is the result of working with CMU's Learning Technology Initiative?
What is the course code for Special Topics: Phase Relations and Phase Diagrams in Magnetoceramics?
What was the result of the game between Tartans and Emory?
What is the location of the event mentioned in the text?
What time does the Voice Lab start at?
What are the dates and times of the L section of Media Design?
What is the URL of the Computing Services website mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of this policy regarding consensual intimate relationships?
Is Justine Cassell currently on leave from Carnegie Mellon University?
 How does the process of SELF-REFINE end for a given output generated by the model?
What are the names of the instructors listed at the end of the text?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What is the name of the course taught by Ozis at PH 107E?
What is the name and time of Thiessen's lecture on Graduate Core Course: Developmental?
What is the location of Freeman C's class?
What are the days and times of all classes listed in this text?
 What tips are shared based on the investigations in the text to improve performance when using discrete speech units?
What are the course codes for 'Intermediate French II', 'Intermediate German II', and 'Interdisciplinary Exploration: Chinese Mythology and Animation Creation' respectively?
Who is the instructor for the Lighting Production course?
What is the course title of Shop Skills VAR B?
Why are academic communities dependent on trust?
How many sections are there for Machine Learning Systems and what are their respective class times?
What are the restrictions on switching tracks in the MIIS program?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What are the names of the instructors for 79201 Introduction to Anthropology and 79234 Technology and Society?
What are the days, times, and locations of the courses offered in this schedule?
What is the date and time of Dickinson Long-Short Invitational in the Tartan Women's Cross Country Schedule?
What are the names of the teachers listed for TTH classes?
What are the days and times for Ph.D. Seminar I?
 What is the main advantage of the decoder-only architecture proposed for ASR tasks?
Where does Peraire's lecture take place?
What is the purpose of providing a link to schedule an appointment for completing Form I-9?
How many courses are offered in this schedule?
Which office is responsible for handling policy against retaliation at Carnegie Mellon University?
 Which month has the maximum absolute difference in dust column concentration over the Bay of Bengal (BOB) region?
 What are some techniques used to reduce the computational cost of long text sequences?
In what year did Independent Study 17996 take place?
What are the subjects of classes 76824 and 76858?
Who is the instructor for Stage Management?
What is the name of the event or activity that these two instructors are involved in?
What are the topics related to analysis and understanding of unstructured information that the Ph.D. program focuses on?
What is the policy regarding second violations while on disciplinary probation?
 What are three distance metrics mentioned for data alignment during embedding learning?
What is the title and instructor for M.Arch Pre-Thesis?
What is the purpose of each class listed in the schedule?
What kind of transportation services does Carnegie Mellon offer?
What are the course codes for Time Series Forecasting in Python and Machine Learning with TABLEAU?
 What is the goal of Automated audio captioning (AAC)?
 What is the success rate of the best GPT-4-based agent mentioned in the text?
Which player's hometown is in Puerto Rico?
What are the class times for Stagecraft: VAR?
What are the three Capstone courses that all MCDS students must take?
Why is it beneficial for students not to switch advisors frequently?
What is discussed in section 6.13 of the text?
In which year was the DEC register transfer modules (RTM) designed and described?
What are the course codes, titles, days of the week, and times offered by Robinson in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where are the instructors from?
 What was the target object selection rate of the full MOSAIC framework in Level-1 of the fetch object task?
 What type of corrosion pits are the most widely used?
Who are the authors of this article?
What are the names of the courses and their respective instructors in this schedule?
What are the course codes for Independent Study in Human-Computer Interaction and METALS Capstone II Part II?
 What is included in Table 4 as per the text?
What is the course name for Shaw's class?
Is Chen's class a required or elective course?
 What does S2TT refer to in the results table?
 What is the dataset used to evaluate PICL in the experiments mentioned in the text?
What are the dates and times of the Stagement Management course?
Where and when does Transport Process Laboratory take place?
What degrees does the Language Technologies Institute offer at CMU?
What is the phone number of Mona Diab?
What is the course code for Learning about Learning?
What is the name of the instructor for Production Prep: Macbeth: Carnegie Scenic?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's policy for suspended students taking courses elsewhere?
What facilities were relocated during the construction of the field?
Who is responsible for providing professional development opportunities at CMU?
Where is the Leadership and Ethics course held?
What should I do if English is not my native language?
Who are the main stakeholders of this website?
 How do the BC column concentrations of MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval compare in the ICP region?
When and where are Singh teaching End to End Business Analytics?
What does the Eberly Center offer to current and prospective teaching assistants?
Who is responsible for grading the courses taken by SCS students outside of their program?
What is the purpose of the Association for Computing Machinery's Council on Women in Computing ACM-W?
 For which dataset is a value of 0.01 provided for PiCO+?
What was the score of Carnegie Mellon against Emory after four quarters?
What are the names of all courses listed in the schedule?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday, Thursday at 8:00 AM?
What are CMU Rales Fellows?
What are the names of the courses offered at HBH 2009 and their respective timings?
What are the course codes for Algebra I and Methods of Optimization?
When does the Sign Language Through Pop Music course take place?
What is the name of the award given to recognize research excellence at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
 What does the Teacher LM serve as target for?
 What was found to be very effective at dealing with the frequency permutation problem?
Who is the instructor for 'Production Prep: Put Your House in Order'?
Who are the three faculty members mentioned in this text?
Where is Law of Computer Technology held?
When was the smiley face emoticon invented?
 Who captured New Netherland in 1664?
What does DNM represent in the context of this text?
What are the class times for Apple's section of Applied Ethical Analysis?
How can international students obtain an I-20 form?
What is the course name of iii Business Core B?
Who are the instructors for Role Playing Game Writing Workshop?
Where is Cervas teaching his class 'Policy Seminar II'?
What areas of campus are available for parking, and how is it managed?
 How do Sun et al. (2021) create gender-neutral text?
What are the days and times of the 'Telling Stories with Data' course?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about research design for political science?
 Who developed the HYU submission for the DCASE 2023 task 6a?
What are the names of the courses being offered in Managing Through Incentives and The Future of Real Estate?
 How have architectures like ContextNet, Transformer, and Conformer improved ASR models?
What is the name of the document where this information can be found?
What are the course titles of the classes that start at 9:00 AM?
 Why was a lower number of folds opted for in the cross-validation process?
What is the maximum duration of a Short-Term Accommodation?
What is the name of the course that teaches Production Prep: Love and Money?
 In comparison to HiFi-GAN, how does the quantizer perform in terms of speech quality according to the text?
Where can you find more information about LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook?
Is it mandatory for MLT students to complete the Master's Thesis?
 What is the purpose of the updater in the model?
What are the names of the two professors teaching 'Team Dynamics and Leadership'?
What do Ramdas F, Townes G, and Tibshirani H have in common?
In what language does Elementary Japanese I teach?
 How does the crack growth rate of Q550E compare to that of Q235 in the late stage of crack growth?
 What is the purpose of the coarse alignment procedure for sample alignment?
What is the name of the program described in this handbook?
What are the names of the speakers in the given schedule?
What does 'Stage Management D' refer to in the context of this schedule?
Who must give their consent before a student's final grade can be changed?
What is the relationship between the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook and Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where are Financial and Managerial Accounting II: Financial and Managerial Accounting II offered by Sudbury in Business Administration 45701?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
 What is employed as the reward model for algorithms using rewards?
 What is the class-wise IoU on domain generalization with SynLiDAR as the source and rain in SemanticSTF as the target?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
What is the purpose of the Gestational and Parental Accommodations section?
Could you share the event through social media or email?
What is an N-1 letter in this context?
What are the days and timings for Teaching Design?
What is the reference for safeguarding educational equity?
What technique did Shafi and Micali invent to show that independently encrypting individual bits causes the whole message to be secure?
What kind of sports facilities does Carnegie Mellon Athletics have?
What are the days/times for Telang F's class?
What is the name of the Design Thesis Project that starts with DNM and taught by Twigg?
How many credits are required for each of the graduate level courses in this schedule?
How can a student satisfy the presentation proficiency requirement?
What kind of support does Health Insurance provide according to this text?
What happens if an international student fails to maintain full-time status?
 What does Equation 6 describe?
 What does the study find about the effect of pretraining data age on model performance?
What is the independent studies policy at MIIS?
What are the names of the classes being offered for External Projects?
What are the names of the teachers who will be teaching at TEP 2612 on Friday?
How can students with disabilities self-identify and request accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the two courses offered by Professor Wiberg?
 What is the projected response of solar PV and wind energy to future climate change in western Africa?
In which room does Ishizaki's Advanced Editing & Publishing class take place?
When and where are Professor Christin's courses offered?
 What does the proposed method in the text not rely on to improve its robustness?
What is the name of the course that Jafry O'Connor teaches?
What is the location of the event 'Moul Z2 TBA DNM DNM'?
Where is Maker Series: Prototyping for Equity held, and who teaches it?
What are the core curriculum and concentrations offered by the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) program?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What challenges can provide opportunities for high standards at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Special Topics in HCI: Learning Analytics and Educational Data Science?
What is the role of an academic advisor during probation?
What did Reddy do at CMU after joining the university in 1969?
What is the name of the class that teaches about Production Management?
What is the course name and time for 80449 EHPP Capstone Course?
What was the date when Emory University and Maryville (TN) played their softball match?
What is the name of the course that Washington teaches?
Where can I review the full university policy on evaluation and certification of English fluency?
 What does the text mention as an emerging challenge when training TTS systems on real-world speech?
Where are the independent study courses offered at the University of Pittsburgh located?
What is the mission of the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many teachers are there in total in this text?
What is D3 in this context?
How many pages does the Appendix have in this text?
What is the name of the course being offered?
What are the dates and times for Dietrich College Senior Honors Thesis II?
 What is the goal of malicious behaviors according to the text?
What are the class times for all courses taught by Saunders?
What is the name of the instructor for the course 'New Play Development Lab - Dramatic Writers'?
How many semesters of academic study are expected from MIIS-21 students enrolled for full-time study to complete the degree?
 What is the proposed system illustrated in Figure 1?
What are the days and times when 'Production Prep: Lorca: Stage Management' is offered?
What are the names of the courses taught by Peraire and Wlodarski?
 Which programming languages are commonly used in Android app development?
What is the centralized online application process like in Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times when the Production Prep: Gloria course will be taught?
What is the default letter grade if a student fails to complete their remaining work?
Who were the opponents of Carnegie Mellon in the ninth and tenth games?
What is the course code and title of the Applications of NL(X) and LLM course offered on Tuesday from 3:30 PM to 4:50 PM?
 What limitations are mentioned regarding classic losses used in training single-channel SE models in the text?
 How do the authors propose to increase the complexity and diversity of training data?
 What is the analysis window used in the STFT setup described in the text?
When does 'BIM for Engineering, Construction and Facility Management' take place?
What is a typical goal of the capstone project?
What is the name of the person who teaches H?
What is the website address for the Office of Research Integrity & Compliance at Carnegie Mellon University?
What page number is mentioned at the end of the third paragraph?
What are the locations of Instructor TBA G and Instructor TBA H in this text?
What is the location of Computing@Carnegie Mellon - E3?
What does the term 'Time Away from Academic Responsibilities' refer to?
 How are the evaluation scores obtained for the 2-speaker separation on SMS-WSJ reported in the given text?
 How does Song et al. (2022) improve on the work by Ahn et al. (2022)?
 What type of tasks are DomainNet datasets commonly used to evaluate?
What are the timings of Ytsma's classes?
When does Owen's course take place at BH 255B?
What happens if I cannot afford to pay the application fee for a limited number of programs?
 What is the significance of peritumoral hepatobiliary phase (HBP) hypointensity in predicting MVI?
What are the names of all instructors mentioned in the given text?
What was the result of the game between Tartans and Rochester?
What is the name of the instructor teaching the Independent Study in Language and Culture-Advanced Level course?
What are the names of the buildings where Cervesato will be teaching his classes on Tuesday and Thursday?
 What data sets are used in the experiments described in the text?
Who teaches Principles of Law: Introduction to Intellectual Property Law?
What are the days of the week, time, and location for Entrepreneurship for Computer Science in room CMB 1199 Doha, Qatar?
What are the days and times when Dr. Anderson teaches Physics I for Engineering Students (33141) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches Web Application Development?
What are the time slots for course 21900?
Are part-time options available in the MIIS degree program? If so, when?
What are the days and times when Directed Reading Mini takes place?
What are the course codes for Logic and Mechanized Reasoning and Foundations of Programming Languages?
Which event does athlete number 1 participate in?
What is the purpose of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
How long does a full-time MCDS student typically take to complete their degree?
 How does the arithmetic intensity differ between initial layers and later layers in a convolutional network?
What event did the Department of Athletics hold to honor top academic athletes at an annual celebration?
What are the class names and days for Massaro O4?
 What datasets were used for the experimental results presented in Table 2?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Wednesday at 6:30 PM in Technology Strategy?
In which semester does the course 'Data Management and Security' take place?
What are the names of all the classes that Harper is attending?
What are the days and times for Mechanical Engineering Project 3-18?
What is the name of the course that teaches Music in the Urban School?
 What is the purpose of the HomeRobot library mentioned in the text?
What percentage of graduate students at Carnegie Mellon are international students?
What are the names of the instructors for the 'Mental training for peak performance' course?
What are the course codes for the two courses taught by Kelley and Tchetchko?
When does LTI Orientation take place according to this text?
Where did Aditya work before joining Dropbox?
What are some adjustments that must be made by a student before taking short-term accommodation?
What is the name of the course that teaches about 'Tools for Online Learning'?
Which section in the text talks about Veterans and Military Community?
What is the name of the office that handles international education affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the dates and times of all classes listed in this text?
What is the location of PR 53608?
What are the restrictions on external employment and consulting in MIIS program?
What is the course about Europe and the Islamic World?
 What is the purpose of Unlimiformer in the context of transformers?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the course 'Information Systems:School of IS & Mgt 95564'?
 How does transfer learning help low-resource tasks according to the text?
Who are the authors of this article?
Do I have to memorize music for performances?
Where was the ITA Regionals held at in October?
What are the days and times for Risteski's Deep Learning Systems course?
What is the name of the university where this graduate student handbook was written?
How many pages does this text take up in total?
In which room is Martin's Text to Screen class held in Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 8:15 PM to 9:30 PM, taught by Markovitz?
What are the names of the people listed in the text from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the name of the dataset selected from the Pile, the CodeParrot dataset, and additional data for Python, Java, and C++?
Who teaches Responsible AI 12.0 A TR?
What is the name of the course offered by Professor Bjorndahl at 12:30PM - 01:50PM on Tuesdays?
What are the names of the courses taught by Pukinskis and Spacagna?
What is the name of the class that has a schedule on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 06:30 PM to 10:30 PM and Tuesday from 08:00 AM to 11:00 PM?
What are the days and times of Qian's Smart Cities: Growth and Intelligent Transportation Systems class?
Who can contact the Language Technologies Institute according to the given information?
What is Mr. Sinclair's role in 'The Kiltie Band'?
 What are non-functional properties in mobile apps and why are they important?
When is the Production Prep: SOM 1: Costume Design class held?
Which player is from Potomac, Maryland?
What day and time does the class 'Beginning Piano for Children II' take place?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Digital Media II and Drawing II?
When does the course 'Production Management C' take place?
What are the days and times when the class for 'Production Prep: SOM 2' is held?
In which room is Solfege II course held?
What are multi-prover proofs also known as?
What is the course taught by Peteanu in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can students contact the Office of the Dean of Students?
 Why were the authors not able to investigate incorporating the Whisper model in their Compositional and 2 pass E2E SLU model?
 What is the significance level chosen for obtaining statistically significant results in the experiment?
What is the course code for 'Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences'?
What are the course codes and instructors' names of all Financial Time Series Analysis classes?
What time does the Softball match between WashU and Carnegie Mellon start on Sun, Apr/21?
What are the days and times of the week when Wong-Noonan teaches in CMB at Doha, Qatar Affara?
How many authors are mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the people who teach I's class?
What are the names of the instructors for Eurhythmics I and III?
What does ACH stand for in the context of this text?
What should you do if you witness or suspect misconduct at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What property of the STFT filterbanks allows for consistent T-F representations across different sampling frequencies?
What time does Shaping Environments: Experiments in Geometry and (Waste)Matter start?
When and where is the 'Colloquium' held?
What are the topics covered in Six Sigma Tools and Techniques?
What are the days and times for Racquetball: 3.0 course?
 How do Perret et al. (2016) find the structure in decoding?
What are the authors' main contributions in this article?
What is the name of the workshop that Hermann offers for leadership immersion?
What are the names of the courses offered by Information Networking Institute that have a duration of 0-12 hours?
Who are the instructors for Senior Thesis 1-18 and Seminar on History of Philosophy?
Who is teaching Project III, which takes place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM in PTC MPR?
Who are the instructors for Requirements for Information Systems and Requirements for Embedded Systems?
Where was 'A Tribute To Herbert Simon' held?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in this schedule?
 How does solar PVPOT vary spatially from tropical to mid-high latitudes?
What is the course code for Documentary Theater?
What is the URL for the Carnegie Mellon University Statement of Assurance regarding discrimination?
 What is the total number of generated images used to evaluate the effectiveness of the attack?
What is the course title of the class taught by Fitzsimmons on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM?
 What percentage of participants would consider submitting their work to a dedicated track on efficient methods?
What are the locations of A2 F 05:00PM 08:00PM CMU REMOTE and B2 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the process for appealing final grades at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the people listed as directors in the schedule?
What should I do if my undergraduate degree and master's degree are from a non-U.S. institution?
 How does ChatGPT Mix-up Augmentation create more complex and diverse training data?
What are the names of the two courses that start at 3:00 PM and end at 4:20 PM?
 What is the visibility defined as in Figure 6?
 What features were found to significantly improve the performance of the hedge classification model?
What is the purpose of professional development programs offered by Eberly?
Who is the instructor for Soluri's course on Mapping Segregated Medicine?
What financial assistance is available for student parents at Carnegie Mellon University?
When did Carnegie Mellon's official mascot debut?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday at 02:00 PM in room DH A301D?
 What is the purpose of the FED dataset?
What is the office location where Dr. Lori Levin can be contacted?
What are the office details of Robert Frederking at Language Technologies Institute?
What should I enter in the 'Class Rank' field?
What are the names of the courses taught by Abtan R?
What is the name of the course being offered at DH 1117 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Software Engineering for Startups and Web Application Development?
What are the class names and meeting times for Mayo's classes in HBH 2008?
What is the location of Mayshle 76107?
How many hours long is each course offered by Iyengar, Hime, Smith, Yoder, Ben, and Platz?
Where are the instructors from at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania? (Part 2)
What are the days and times when Levin-Decanini teaches Programming Usable Interfaces?
 What is AFP in the text?
In what year did Allen Newell receive the National Medal of Science?
Where does Rita Singh work?
What is 11-601 about?
What are the names of the instructors for Interpretation and Argument AB?
Who should students contact for questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint?
 What is a k-nearest neighbor language model (kNN-LM) notable for?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday at 10:00 AM in room WEH 7316?
 What do negative 1 − 𝐶𝐼𝑢 values for certain phonemes indicate?
What is the title of the course taught by Bauer at 12:30 PM on Wednesdays?
What are the breadth courses in Language Technology Applications?
What is the name of the class that Handel teaches at PH 125C on Tuesday from 09.30 AM to 11.50 AM?
What are the names of the instructors listed after Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Instructor TBA AI TBA TBA?
What is the purpose of each department issuing a handbook for graduate students at CMU?
According to Morris, what is university politics like?
What is the maximum number of graduate courses from departments within SCS relevant to MIIS degree that a student can count as approved qualifying courses?
 What is the difference between supervised and unsupervised neural speech separation models?
What is the topic of the Computer Science Colloquium?
Who teaches 54684 Lighting Forum 1.0?
 Which LLM achieves the overall best performance on all dataset splits for the Plan module?
What is the title of Moskal's class?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does Jais-chat (13B) perform against LLaMA2-chat (13B) in English?
What are the locations of the courses with codes 03655, 03744, and 03763 in the text?
Why did Allen Newell become an administrator?
What is the name of the course where students can learn about connection to self and others through music?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the class that has a schedule on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 06:30 PM to 10:30 PM and Tuesday from 08:00 AM to 11:00 PM?
Who can help students identify and reach out to the library liaison in their field?
When does Wiener's lecture take place?
What are the dates and times of the External Projects classes that focus on Lighting Design?
 What is the name of the domain generalization technique that aims to use meta-regularization for domain generalization?
Who teaches the course on Special topics: Cryptography meets algorithms?
What is the duration of the Thesis Research course?
What are the days and times when Hudson teaches Software Structures for User Interfaces?
Where can students find information about the process of applying for financial aid in Graduate Education – Financial Assistance?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What is the course code for MITS Capstone Project?
 What type of feedback was obtained from participants after completing the transcriptions?
What are the course codes for GHC 5231 and MI 448?
Who is the instructor for Area 1-48 in Independent Study?
What is the title of the course taught by Habib Sadeh at 11:00 AM on Tuesdays?
What is temporal logic used for?
What is the course name of Integrated Innovation for Large-Scale Problems taught by Shaikh at B23 212 in San Jose, California?
 What does the text mention about the ability of FROMAGe when provided with the full multimodal context?
What is the name of the course being offered at A19A, its duration, and what type of class it is?
What is the ultimate goal of the author's approach?
How many Theory Proficiency Test are there in total according to the schedule provided?
What are the names of the authors who wrote 'Production Technology and Management Monograph: Stage & Production Management Thesis B'?
 What does open-domain summarization aim to achieve?
What is the schedule of the course 'Lear Dramaturgy'?
What is the name of the instructor for Large Language Models Methods and Application?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
Who creates the Tartan Men's Golf schedule?
 How are the scores of each passage entity of CP computed?
What is the degree offered by Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania? (Part 2)
What are the athletic/fitness facilities available for CMU students according to the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the name of the course taught by Yucel?
Can students inspect and review their education records under FERPA?
 How are real and synthetic images differentiated in the displayed pairs?
What are the course codes for Digital Media II and Drawing II?
 What tools are used to measure execution time, memory usage, and bandwidth in the experiments?
What is the name of the university where Mozisek teaches Chemical Engineering?
 What issue arises with the two-staged solution proposed by Shi and Huang (2019)?
What is the course code and title of the fifth class listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the department(s) that Yonatan Bisk belongs to?
What are the days of the week, time, and location for Computational Perception in room WEH 4708?
What are the additional learning outcomes for students electing to complete the Systems concentration?
Is CMU Alert available for students only?
What are the locations, times and subjects of Flaherty's classes?
What is the name of the person who teaches Production Management on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is the maximum duration of leave of absence that can be granted to students in MCDS?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the duration of the 'Stage Rigging Concepts' course?
What are the class timings for Production Preparation: Show Network Integrator?
What is the focus of the first two years of Ph.D. program?
Where can MS students get help with university resources?
What is Carolyn Rosé's research areas?
What is the course code for Design Thesis II?
 How is the program representation structured in the GI framework?
 What are superiors above a given element in the is-a hierarchy called?
What is the requirement for attaining a PhD degree at CMU?
Where is the university located?
According to this text, where can students find information about student and affiliate ID cards?
What are the names of the two laboratories that Guo is teaching?
When did Shaw join the faculty at CSD?
When is Garrod and Blelloch's class C held at WEH 6403?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Topics in Consumer Behavior course?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered at TEP 1403?
What is the course name and credit hours for the course offered by Instructor TBA B?
 How does CSurF generate contextualized surface forms?
What is the course code for Japanese Film and Literature?
What is the course Architectural Theory & Contemporary Issues about?
What is the duration expected to complete MIIS-16 students enrolled for part-time study?
Where is the University Center located in this text?
What is the name of the person who teaches the lecture titled 'Research Training: History' on Friday from 9:00 AM to 9:50 AM?
What is the title of the course taught by Ms. Brownlee on Monday and Wednesday from 4:00 PM to 4:50 PM in PCA 307?
What are the course codes of all these classes?
What class does Instructor TBA teach on Thursdays from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What are the dates and times of Cybersecurity for Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning 6.0 A2 M 06:30PM 09:20PM HBH 1007?
When was the algorithm developed by CMU scientists for kidney donor matching completed?
 What is the purpose of the simulation version of the Open-Vocabulary Mobile Manipulation problem?
 What is the goal of summarization as described in the text?
What are the roles of Bjorndahl mentioned in this text?
What are the three Capstone courses that all MCDS students must take?
 Where can all the codes related to TASTE be found?
What is included in Carnegie Mellon's annual campus security and fire safety report?
What is the name of the university's track where these athletes practice and compete?
What time does the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Production Management' start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does Unlimiformer differ from Memorizing Transformers in terms of training requirements?
What are the names of the courses taught by Branson?
Where can students find information about CMU Alert?
What happens when an informal resolution cannot be reached for a graduate student's concern?
Who is teaching Professional and Service Projects on Wednesday at 11:30 AM?
What is the name of the person who will be working on Stage Management for Lonely Planet?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room WEH 5302?
 How does the text propose to handle low confidence in generated sentences?
What is the academic program of Eshani Agrawal?
 What is PointDR?
Where is the independent study located?
What time do Scenic Design, Carnegie Scenic, Costume Design, Lighting Design, Sound Design, Media Design classes start?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in History 3-9 A at Pittsburgh University?
What is LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Brumley?
What is the course code for Social Psychology taught by Belanger in Doha, Qatar?
What is the title of the course being offered at HBH 2003 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the Technical Opportunities Conference?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-36 taught by Instructor TBA?
 According to the text, what future directions are suggested for extending FROMAGe?
What is the name of the course taught by Parno at location HOA 160?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Integrated Systems Technology: Building the Fab D?
What was the best finish for Carnegie Mellon University in the annual Learfield Directors’ Cup standings?
Does this institution have any industry affiliates or partners?
 What are the four subsets of the dataset mentioned in the text?
 What were participants provided with for the training data in terms of fairness ground truth?
Who are the authors of this dissertation?
 Which phoneme had the lowest 1 − 𝐶𝐼𝑢 value and what does this suggest?
Who is the instructor for Carnegie Scenic?
What are the course codes for Das's classes?
What are the names of the teachers and their class times?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
What is the location of the internship for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD students?
 Which paper discusses the dangers of language models being too big?
How many units are required for completing the capstone planning seminar?
 What is the proposed method to implement the active retrieval augmented generation framework?
 How is the child-parent relation score computed in the hierarchical relation extraction process?
What was the significance of the “blackboard architecture” developed under CMU’s speech understanding research program?
How can I register for domestic partner benefits at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where and when does Helgeson 85981 take place?
What is the course code for Special Topics: Maker Series: Intro to Wood Working?
What kind of initiatives does RSLI offer for students?
What is ABD versus ABD in Absentia (ABS)?
What are the names of the individual music studies studios mentioned in the text for each location?
What is the purpose of the Wright-Rogal Chapel in the University Center?
What are the names of the instructors for the course 'INI Independent Study' at Information Networking Institute?
What is the abbreviation 'DNM' in this text?
What is the contact information for the Office of Title IX Initiatives?
What type of surface does Gesling Stadium's playing field have?
What is the course code for Chinese Through Cultural Practices & Community?
Where and when does Applied Smart Grid Telecoms class take place?
What is the name of the course taught by Baird in MM 103 at 03:30PM?
 How are errors from errors identified by AUTOMQM used?
What is the policy regarding on-campus emergencies at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course taught by Nielsen?
 How does the stress intensity factor change with increasing thickness during crack propagation?
What is CMU researchers Tom Mitchell and Marcel Just working on?
Does the School of Computer Science offer spring admission?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Production Prep: SOM 3: Stage Management D'?
According to the text, what challenges can academic environments present for some students?
 What is the learning rate used in the training configuration?
 How is the aggregated loss LAGG AGKD formulated?
What are the course titles, days of the week, times, and locations for lecture A on Tuesday from 6:30 PM to 9:20 PM?
What are the locations for Mobile Application Development courses?
Where is Japanese Film and Literature: The Art of Storytelling held?
Where does Distributed Systems take place?
What is the current status of Rick Rashid according to the text?
What are the two options available on the menu bar of the website?
What are the days and times of the Topics in Research class?
Where is Sound Forum class held?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Repertoire and Listening for Musicians III classes respectively?
What is 'traversal' of a tree or graph?
How can visitors find more information about parking at CMU?
 What is the unique identifier (UID) used in the OpenGPTText data set?
 During which period did heavy haze pollution occur in Beijing according to the text?
What is the time and location of the 'Introduction to Graduate Studies' course mentioned in the text?
Who can receive accommodations from the Office of Disability Resources?
What is the name of Anatole Gershman's department?
What are some typical choices of elective courses that students can take outside SCS?
Which team won the UAA Indoor Championships in Men's Track on February 25, 2024?
Who performed at Wu O's event?
What is the location of the Leadership Development Seminar?
Where is Dominic Voiland from?
 What metric is used as both the local validation score and evaluation metric?
Where is the LTI located?
 Which algorithm performed the best in terms of finding the best fronts in 11 cases?
 Which model excels at audio processing tasks according to the text?
What are the dates and times of the Undergraduate Colloquium for Sophomores class taught by Younis?
What is the name of Zhang's course in this schedule?
What is the location of BA in this text?
Where and when does History and Future of Interaction Design take place?
Who are the instructors for Designing Human Centered Software A?
What is the purpose of the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors for each course in the schedule?
Where does Rajkumar R's lecture take place?
How tall is Faith Lawrence?
What is the location of User-Centered Research and Evaluation: A, B, C, D, and E classes?
Where is the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) located?
Who is responsible for ensuring that qualified individuals receive reasonable accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name, credit hours, and meeting time for HBH 1202 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When is the Live Recording Laboratory class offered at CFA A6 in Pittsburgh?
Who teaches 'Data Science for Technology, Innovation and Policy' course?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses listed in the schedule?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Thursday at 3:30 PM in room SH 236?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Machine Learning 10301?
 Which loss functions are supported for ST and SST models in ESPnet-ST-v2?
Which teacher has a class on Wednesday?
Where is the LTI located?
What are the names of the people teaching for the costume design class?
 What is the impact of feedback on the Sentiment Transfer task performance?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the conference travel funding process at CMU?
 What RL algorithm is used in the adapter optimization for IPA?
What should students do if they need accommodations due to pregnancy and receive an academic stipend funded by Carnegie Mellon?
What are the three production classes offered in this schedule?
What is the purpose of the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs in providing an emergency-based loan repayable within 30 days?
What are the names of the instructors for each production preparation class?
Is the Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow (TLT) a part of the official curriculum at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What data augmentation techniques are adopted according to [43]?
Who teaches User-Centered Research and Evaluation C?
What should the age of the GRE scores be for Master's applications in the School of Computer Science?
What is the course title and credit hours for the Advanced Transport Phenomena course offered at DH 4201 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What do the calculations suggest about the loss ratio of prestress in relation to concrete strength?
What is the name of the course taught by Thomson on Wednesdays?
What are the two time slots for Production Prep at Costume Design?
What is Berliner's most lasting legacy according to Schaeffer?
Where and when is the Principles of Imperative Computation course held?
 What is the probability of adding 0-2,000 random points into the 3D space of each LiDAR scan?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence for Engineers: Lec class?
How does having a personal relationship with an advisor benefit students?
 What is the training procedure of the model architecture MQTTS?
Where can students find the university's general withdrawal policy?
Where is the 'Developing as a Leader' session held?
 How does the removal of speaker and turn information affect the performance of the parser according to the text?
What are the topics of the Micro Biopharma and Protein-Based Pharmaceuticals seminar?
When and where are Cox-Boyd's Intro to Health Psychology: Methods of Inquiry classes held?
 In Figure 7, how are the ChatGPT similarity scores depicted?
How many pages does the WORD Student Handbook have?
 What is the purpose of making the all-in-one recipes and pre-trained model publicly available?
Do I need to retake the TOEFL if my undergraduate or master's degree is from a U.S. institution?
What should departments and colleges confirm about the academic calendar for graduate students?
Where is Tartan Ink located?
According to the analysis presented in the paper, how does C.mmp compare to uniprocessor systems like PDP-10?
What are the names of the two graduate recitals for piano in this text?
Who teaches Introduction to Flameworking: TBA B and what are its timings?
What is the title of Bhuwan Dhingra's talk at the Three Minute Thesis competition?
What is the name of the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Chamber Music) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the phone number for Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the class times for Production Prep: Costume Design with Mr. Burns?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching the Carnegie Scenic and Lighting Design classes, respectively?
What does 'first' mean in the context of this text?
What is the course '94784 Technology, Humanity and Social Justice - Health 3.0 A2 F 05:00PM 08:00PM CMU REMOTE Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Mozisek' about?
Who are the target audience for the Robotics Institute Summer Scholars at CMU?
 Why does the stirrup reinforcement ratio have no obvious influence on prestress loss?
 What is the word error rate reported for the best classical hybrid systems on the Librispeech task?
What is the location of the independent study projects mentioned?
What is the name of the handbook mentioned in this section?
When are the Production Prep classes held for Carnegie Scenic and Lighting Design in this schedule?
Who is eligible for Affiliate ID Cards at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Theory 3-9 D?
What is the name of the course that starts at 07:00 PM on Wednesday and ends at 09:50 PM?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 12:30 PM on Monday and Wednesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How do students meet potential advisors during the matching process?
What are the class codes for 'Advanced Speech Techniques', 'Movement IV', and 'Special Topics in Sound Design'?
What is the course title of Cronin's class?
At what time does Kietrys' Bioorganic Chemistry: Peptides, Proteins and Combinatorial Chemistry class start?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday, Thursday at 4:00 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What type of trajectory does the particle form when (cid:2)Xt = 0 and (cid:2)Zt 6¼ 0?
What are the units for Biological Sciences 03124 Modern Biology Laboratory?
What is the course name and instructor teaching Sex & Texts in PH A19 on TR at 12:30PM?
What is the location of Callan's office?
Where can students find information about RSLI staff support?
What is the location of Martins' class?
Are offices assigned to all Ph.D. students in residence on the Pittsburgh campus?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Fridays from 09:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room NSH 1308?
What are the names of the two classes that teach Marketing Communication for Consumer Brands?
 How are the pseudo labels of denoising back-translation different from the original back-translation?
What is the name of the course taught by Hoe at what time on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What are the class timings for Production Management Workshop?
What is the course code for Software Engineering Graduate Reading & Research?
What is the title of the project course that focuses on conversational systems?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What are the names of the students who will be performing in Artist Diploma Studio 36.0?
What is the Research Speaking Requirement?
What is the course title for Ishizaki 76488 and Houser 76703?
What does the phrase 'designate a default letter grade' mean?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday and Thursday at 8:00 AM in room 4SC 172?
What is the course code for Introduction to Film Studies?
What is the course code for Introduction to Lighting Design Skills?
What are the minimum number of core courses required for an MCDS degree?
 Why is distinguishability not considered a reliable meta-metric?
What is the role of the Thesis Supervision and Monitoring Committee (CAT) in relation to students' thesis proposals?
Where can you find contact information for Yiming Yang?
How many semesters do full-time MCDS students typically take to complete the program?
What are the names of the courses taught by Laduke and Colwell?
What is the course title of the class that meets in CMB 1031 with Major 70432 Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion and Business Strategy?
In which section can you find information about Teaching Requirements according to this text?
When was the CMU Soccer Field constructed?
What are the course names and credit hours for each listed course?
Where is the course 'Guided Research in Information Systems VAR A2' located?
 How many hours of data are in the resulting dataset for training?
Where and when is Cognitive Perspectives in HCI located?
Which type of requirement ensures that MIIS students receive instruction in core knowledge areas?
 What needs to be applied before the dc fault current exceeds twice of the rated current of IGBTs?
What does model checking attract at CMU?
What is the grading standard for courses offered by SCS CMU?
Who is the instructor for 'Lighting Production'?
 What does Equation 6 describe in the text?
 How many data points are there in the training set for the CLUTRR dataset?
 What is the range of values for the Afro-Asiatic language family?
Who teaches Sound Design for Production Prep: A Little Night Music?
What is the purpose of Domestic Partner Registration at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered in Doha, Qatar?
When and where does Introduction to Parallel Computing and Scientific Computation take place?
How many Dual Degree Ph.D. scholarships are available through the Carnegie Mellon Portugal Program and Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia (FCT)?
 Which proposed model often scored higher than the IPA-based proposed models?
When was the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Thiel held?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Disruptive Technologies in Arts Enterprises course?
What is the location of the first event listed in the text?
 What was developed to facilitate the alignment procedure?
 What is the main difference between pre-tensioned prestressed tendons and post-tensioned rebars?
What is the requirement for transferring an equivalent graduate course from another institution into a PhD program at Carnegie Mellon?
What kind of financial matters can be reported through the reporting system?
Who teaches Political Economy (course code 73332)?
What time does Twedt's News Writing take place in Pittsburgh?
What is the title of DeBlasio's course?
Who are the instructors for Elective Studio (Jazz Piano I Class) and Elective Studio (Jazz Piano II Class)?
What kind of expenses are covered under Conference Travel Funding at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What was introduced in the MQTTS system to improve synthesis quality?
What are the time slots for Production Prep classes?
Where is the course 'Data Exploration and Visualization' held?
What are the names of all the classes taught by Zetlin-Jones?
What is the policy regarding Teaching Assistantships at MIIS?
How can students or professionals interested in this field contact the Language Technologies Institute?
What event did they participate in on Fri, May/26 at the NCAA Outdoor Championships?
What should a student do if they believe their grade was issued in error?
Who were the instructors for Lectures E, F, and G of Principles of Computing?
What are the names of the teachers listed in alphabetical order?
What is the name of the instructor for VMD L's Production Prep session?
What is the date of the AT Kenyon Diving Invitational?
 What is transfer learning in machine translation and how does it help improve performance?
What are the class names and locations for Pal-Agrawal's classes?
How many people are listed as having completed their doctoral thesis research under these instructors?
Where will students spend their last two years of study?
What is the commonly accepted proof for one of Principia Mathematica's theorems that Logic Theorist generated?
What does 'episodic' representation and reasoning mean in the context of Scone?
 Why does GPT require fine-tuning on fully text-based expert trajectory?
When does Series D1 start and end?
Who should students consult with regarding billing and financial aid?
Where can you find information about MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the address and contact information for the Language Technologies Institute (LTI) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the requirement to use athletic/fitness facilities at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What layer is commonly more dominant for MAViL except for emotion recognition on IEMOCAP?
 How is Span Precision (SP) defined?
 What were the main limitations of the study mentioned?
What is the title of Professor Mehalik's course '88344 Systems Analysis: Environmental Policy'?
 How was κorg derived in the study?
What is the academic program of Eshani Agrawal?
What is the course code for Ph.D. Thesis Research?
What is the role of The Link in relation to the School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times of the Electrical & Computer Engineering courses Introduction to Printed Circuit Boards Fabrication A1 R and Getting Started in Electronics: An Experiential Approach?
What are the class names and meeting times for Lassman?
 What are some key factors explored in the text regarding pretraining data?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
 For GPT4, which value of K was reported given the resource constraints?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Gasson?
 What is the distribution of U(wi,j) used for in the context of determining the probability of success?
What are the days and times of Lindlbauer's Special Topics in HCI Justice Through Design?
 What is the number of parameters in the LLaMA2 model?
How can an 'I' grade affect a student's academic standing or future opportunities?
 What is one of the tasks for which the multiple resolutions of HuBERT are suggested to be beneficial?
What does the MLT Graduate Student Handbook contain information about?
 What is the main focus of the paper by Sharma and Raj referenced in [1]?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Basic Harm in this text?
Where was Men's Golf played at on March 23rd?
Where is the location of Senior Capstone II class?
 What are the advantages of combining KALE with the original lexical vocabulary?
 How does Unlimiformer improve the base model when applied early stop w/ Unlimiformer?
 What happens when swapping experts for different inputs on HotpotQA?
What is the role of Brianna Eriksen in Carnegie Mellon University?
What services does UHS have staff specialists for?
What happens if a student fails to meet the goals set by their academic advisor during probation?
How many courses are mentioned in this text?
What is the name of the ensemble that will perform Literature and Repertoire at M 10:30AM in CFA ACH?
What additional resources are available for graduate students at the university?
What is the name of the instructor for Data Science Seminar?
 What is the hypothesis regarding the coverage of topics in CC, OpenWeb, and Books in relation to Academic-specific sources?
Who can attend CMU games for free with their ID card?
What does the text mention about Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities?
When does the Basketball Skills class meet for A1 students?
What is the name of the course that starts at 2:30 PM on Tuesdays?
What happens if a student receives an N-1 letter?
What is the purpose of sharing information about the Tartan Athletics Club?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
 Why is it important to differentiate between responses that are less helpful and those that contain multimodal hallucinations?
What is the course code for Queer Representations in Contemporary Literature and Culture from Japan?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Mohimani and DeBlasio's Algorithms and Advanced Data Structures course?
How many instructors are listed in this text?
What sports are being played on Fri, Apr/19?
Where is Louw 05610 located?
 What is the difference between top-k sampling and top-p sampling?
What is the course code for Advanced Computational Physics?
Who needs to complete Form I-9 at CMU?
What is the time slot for Dramaturgy B?
How many authors contributed to this study?
What are the dates and times of the Production Prep sessions for Stage Management?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Friday at 10:00 AM?
What is the course code and title of the Ethics of Emerging Technologies course?
What is the course code for MWF 02:00PM - 04:50PM class according to this schedule?
 What models are used as baselines in the knowledge-grounded dialogue experiment?
What are the names of the two students who taught a course on 'Introduction to Japanese Mahjong'?
 What is the main means of comparison in the zero-shot cross-domain adaptation task?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: Sender: Stage Management?
Where are the classes Machine Learning for Text and Graph-based Mining and Search Engines held?
What are the days and times of Musuraca and Eslami's User-Centered Research and Evaluation?
What is the location of each class?
What are the names of the instructors for Analysis 9.0 Lec 1 and their respective class timings?
In what city does Cox-Boyd teach Research Methods in Social Psychology?
What did Shafi discover about the power of multi-prover proofs?
What has the work done at Microsoft Research led to?
What is the name of the instructor for IT Project Management course?
 What tool did the researchers run on the 7 applications to identify performance issues?
What is the application process for Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science graduate programs?
 What does DACS+PAC refer to in Figure 5?
What is the office number of Chenyan Xiong?
What is the course code of Teaching Apprentiship - French A?
 Why does HJ-Pruning-MAC have similar performance with HJ-Pruning-SepSize in the method?
What event did the Department of Athletics hold to honor top academic athletes?
 What are the two methods mentioned for composing texts?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
Who will be teaching the 'Lighting Design II' and 'Production Prep: Sender: VAR Directing A' classes?
What are the names of the courses offered in Persuasive Design and User-Centered Research and Evaluation?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Monday at CMR F309?
What is the location of Ojeda D's elective studio?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday at 2:00 PM?
 What is the significance of the learned weights for layer importance according to the text?
How do students log on to SIO?
 How does the baseline ASR model compare with Whisper large in acoustic robustness sub-track and main track?
What is the overall winning percentage of Tartan Women's Tennis team for the 2023-24 season?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Thursday in room MM 307?
Are students already enrolled in an LTI degree program required to retake GRE and TOEFL/IELTS/Duolingo exams or produce new transcripts for transfer into the MIIS program?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Tuesdays?
What is the event that starts at 4:00 PM EST on Friday, March 1st?
Where was the Bucknell Open & Multi held?
What happens upon completion of a graduate degree?
 What approach does Table 3 present for hierarchical relation extraction?
What are the names of the courses offered in VAR Directing?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'Sender'?
How can students change their address if they are an MCDS student and need to update it in a timely manner?
What services does Dining Services offer to students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Probability Theory classes?
What is the purpose of SafeWalk for campus community members?
What are the days and times of the Production Prep class for Costume Design?
Why is this information provided in a handbook specifically designed for Ph.D. graduate students?
Who teaches the On-Device Machine Learning course?
What are the names of the courses offered in Italian language and culture at the University?
What are the days and times for each course mentioned in the text?
 What approach did Lu et al. take to improve ChatGPT-based evaluators?
 What is the primary host of inﬂuenza C virus according to the text?
What is required for a draft of thesis document to be made available online?
 What percentage of patients were male in the study?
Who should students contact for questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint?
What is the name of the last author listed?
Where and when does Vuocolo teach the lecture of Modern Chemistry I?
When does Stage Management Seminar take place?
What are the course codes for Turetsky's classes?
What was the name of the course that took place on Tuesday at 2:00 PM?
What is the course code for Beginning Fiction Workshop?
 What is the value of GPT-4 at the 51st position in the text?
 What is the maximum relative difference in BC column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval over the SUS region?
What is the location of the Elective Recital?
What is the Language Technologies Master's program (MLT) at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many countries are represented by international students at Carnegie Mellon University?
How can graduate students get emergency funding?
What are the course codes for Aronson's classes?
Who is listed last in the text?
 What is the classification of volatile chemical substances in branch sap and dried fruits?
What does the shield in Carnegie Mellon's mascot graphic represent?
When is the 'Human and Machine Decisions from Experience' course held?
 What might be a side effect of the postnorm layer normalization?
 Why might there be a gap between the majority vote and unanimously approved examples in the text?
Which team does Carnegie Mellon play against in Women's Tennis match #2 on Friday, March 1st?
How does the IPO pricing process work?
What is the Carnegie Mellon University Statement of Assurance mentioned in this text?
What are the rules about transferring into the MCDS program from Carnegie Mellon?
How many credits are awarded to 'Special Topics: Advanced Python for Infrastructure Systems'?
What are the contact details for email communication with Language Technologies Institute?
 What did the generalized linear model (GLM) and GAM model elucidate about the relationship between AGR and OS?
 What batch size is used for training DIFUSCO in TSP-500?
What is Carnegie Mellon's approach to student well-being?
How many people are mentioned in the text as composers or musicians?
What are the class names and meeting times for Hyatt?
How do I apply to either the doctoral track in Algorithms, Combinatorics and Optimization (ACO) or in Pure and Applied Logic (PAL)?
Why do students need to provide an official copy of their English proficiency score report?
What are the LTI lectures and talks for?
 What do the experimental results demonstrate about the proposed technique in the text?
How can students access academic coaching services provided by the Student Academic Success Center?
What is the role of Caroline Rosé in relation to LTI PhD?
What should students do if they cannot get admission to a course due to restricted enrollment?
Where can students find information about parking at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the students mentioned in the list?
What is the purpose of the Alumni Chapter according to the text?
 What is the main focus of the proposed I3D Transformer encoder?
 What method was found to be the best choice for compressing prompts in the experiments?
Do all doctoral course-sections follow the same academic calendar?
Where does Douglas teach Chorus?
What happens if F-1 students do not keep their address information current?
How can someone contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the course that starts at 9:30 AM on Fridays in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is David Durdaller's hometown/high school?
What are the standards expected from members of the Carnegie Mellon community?
What is the course code for all courses listed in this text?
 How does the wind field affect the accumulation or dispersion of atmospheric pollutants?
What is the course name and instructor for Corporate Finance?
When do the Spring Semester hours for Tepper Fitness Center begin?
What is the purpose of posting pertinent information to students through email and the OIE website?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on TR from 12:30PM to 01:50PM at CUC ACTVY in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Alexander Technique for Musicians course offered by Levinson?
When and where does the Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction class take place?
What is the course code for Internship taught by Telang and Tsamitis in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where can MS students get help with university resources?
Who is the instructor for Beyond Earth First-Year Seminar?
What is the name of the course offered in Directing A class?
What is the conference record of the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
On what date was the CWRU Spartan Holiday Classic held?
Where can students find contact information for MIIS program in this handbook?
What is the name of the class that meets on Friday evenings from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What is the purpose of the document summarized in this text?
 How did the increase in aerosol extinction coefficient at different heights affect radiation reaching the surface?
What is the phone number of Language Technologies Institute (LTI) at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors listed in this text that have a last name starting with 'E'?
 What is the hierarchical setup of intermediate layers used in the hierarchical conditioning described in the text?
How can students connect with consultants in scholarly publishing, research data management, and digital resources at the library?
How can graduate students obtain a copy of the annual campus security and fire safety report?
What is the purpose of providing CS user id to MS students?
 What is the value of GPT-4 for 0-shot?
What are the dates and times of Peer Mentor?
What are the course codes for Directed Research and PhD Internship?
What is the location of all courses listed?
How many units must students enroll each semester to receive the maximum amount of federal financial aid?
What is the name of the course that starts at 03:30 PM and takes place in room 4SC 104?
Who is teaching which course at what time on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
What is the class schedule for Leadership and Innovation Management?
What are the days and times for Ph.D. Readings and Research?
How can students get involved in undergraduate research and honors thesis at the university's School of Computer Science?
What is the course code for Law of Computer Technology?
What is the location of Hoogstaden B's Elementary French II class?
What is the purpose of publishing an annual campus security and fire safety report by Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the locations of Mayshle courses B1, C1, D1, F1, and G1?
Where does Branson teach Percussion Ensemble?
What is the location and time of Hacker Fab 1 - Building the Fab?
What are the names of the two people mentioned in this text?
What is the name of the department that maintains this website?
When does the Programming for Game Designers course take place?
What are the names of the two dance classes listed in this schedule?
Where and when does the last class listed take place?
What are the class times and locations for Crosscultural Psychology (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania MacWhinney) and Graduate Reading and Research (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Helgeson)?
What is the role of an instructor in awarding an 'I' grade?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
What are some nearby attractions to the LTI?
What is the course duration for each class?
What is the title of the course that starts at 8:00 AM and ends at 11:00 PM on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday?
Who teaches Physics 33051 Study Abroad?
In what year did Shafi Goldwasser receive the RSA Award in Mathematics for Outstanding Mathematical Contributions to Cryptography?
How does the decision to grant transfer credit or issue an exemption affect the student's academic progress?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What is the name of the first policy mentioned in Academic Policies?
What website can students visit to find more information about university policies?
Where can you find information about all mentioned library locations and hours, online resources, and FAQ's?
What is Lei Li's phone number?
What is the location of the Study Abroad program?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday through Friday mornings from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What are the course credits and title of Computing @ Carnegie Mellon: 3.0 C1?
What is the location of Instructor TBA's class in PH A22 on E at 11:00AM - 11:50AM?
 What is the inspiration behind the method used in this approach?
What is the location of Neg at TEP 2611?
What is the purpose of the campus-wide Graduate Student Instructor Orientation events?
What are the days and times when Tepper College Honors Thesis II takes place?
Name two classes taught by Claudia Rankine.
 What is one noteworthy finding mentioned regarding the performance of large models in the multilingual ASR task?
 What are some examples of text classification models that students learn to train in the StoryQ module?
 How does the text confirm the hypothesis regarding low-confidence erroneous tokens?
 How do wider models help improve task performance according to the text?
What are the days, times, and locations for each course listed in the schedule?
What is the title of the course being taught?
What are the names of the courses offered by Opie in Graduate Recital (strings 1st year)?
How many instructors are listed in the text?
What is the name of the building where class E is held?
What is the name of the course that teaches Introduction to Yoga?
 What are the improvements due to instruction-tuning for the models 1.3B, 6.7B, and 13B?
 Why was geographic location not considered for analysis?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Seminar in Finance I and Seminar in Finance IV?
 What are the mean values used to normalize each color channel in the ImageNet dataset?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday at 1:00 PM in room GHC 4215?
When does 'Teaching Methodologies for the Foreign Language Classroom' take place?
When does a student typically compose their dissertation proposal during their Ph.D. studies?
How long does it take to complete a master's program?
What should I do if English is not my native language?
What is the title of the course taught by Marcellino in CMU REMOTE at 12:30 PM?
What is the course name and location for Readings In Psychology?
What is the purpose of collaborating with LTI?
What is All But Dissertation status in relation to a PhD degree?
What kind of skills are taught in the Carnegie Mellon Cheerleading Program?
 Why is directly using human feedback to improve model behavior not feasible in the general case?
What is the role of the LTI regarding graduate student funding?
What is the instructor's name for Stage Management D on Wednesday?
 How many responses per prompt are generated for toxic generation evaluation?
What are the names of the professors teaching in the given lecture schedule?
When was the swimming and diving pool constructed?
What is the main focus of Graham Neubig's research within NLP technologies?
What is the contact email for the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the class times for Production Prep: Sound Design with Mr. Burns?
What services does the University Center provide to its visitors?
What is the English Fluency in Higher Education Act of 1990?
What is the policy regarding external employment/consulting for LTI students?
What is the course code for Colloquium offered on Monday at 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM?
 Was there any significant difference observed between the proposed methods and the best baseline method?
What is the purpose of a university's policy on drop and withdrawal?
Where did the Tartans compete on February 24, 2024?
What is required for graduate students to instruct in Pennsylvania, according to the English Fluency in Higher Education Act of 1990?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
What is the policy on Leave of Absence in MIIS program?
Which instrument does student C, Cornetti play?
What are the credit hours for these two special topic courses?
Where can a student find additional resources for current students in Graduate Education – Financial Assistance?
Where is Glover's course, Corporate Finance, held?
What are the class names and meeting times for Mayo?
What are the days and times for each class in this schedule?
Where can students find more information about dining services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the main focus of the first thread of research?
What are the course codes and titles for Mercier's courses in Software Management Capstone Project?
What are the course codes for Intermediate French I and Elementary Russian I?
What is the course code and title of the class taught by Farag at San Jose State University?
Who teaches the Data Focused Python course?
What are the names of the instructors for Statistical Graphics and Visualization course?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
When does Eurhythmics IV take place?
What is mentioned in this text as a resource for transcript questions?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Pavetti in Sensor Based Systems?
What is the policy regarding consensual intimate relationship between graduate students and undergraduates at Carnegie Mellon University?
Why do F-1 or J-1 students need to consult with their designated advisor in the Office of International Education (OIE)?
 What did the MOSAIC framework demonstrate in the fetch object task?
 Why is the stateful version of FedEP considered meaningless in the context of large number of clients?
Where and when does MCDS Independent Study take place?
What is the website for CMU's University Center?
What are the days, times, location, instructor, and course name for MSCF Business Communication II?
 What is the title of the article by Russell et al. in Atmos. Chem. Phys. 2010 focusing on AERONET data?
What are the days and times of the courses listed in the schedule?
Where is the course 'Undergraduate Seminar II: Safety and Environmental Issues for Chemists' held?
Who are the instructors of Societal Computing Practicum?
What are the names of the professors teaching Multidimensional Calculus and Vector Analysis?
Who is the instructor for Stagecraft Paints (2 units) B2?
When and where does Insects and Robots start?
On which page of the MLT Graduate Student Handbook can you find information about SafeWalk?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button in the text?
What was the purpose of the annual Student-Athlete Academic Achievement Celebration?
Where does the 'Systems: Project Planning' class take place?
What is the title and course code of the course that starts at 03:30PM on Mondays?
What are the names of the people involved in each event?
 What are the three model parameters updated in the gradient descent update rule?
Which instructor teaches 'Data Science for Political Science'?
What is the course code for Reading and Research?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Strategic Management of the Enterprise'?
How does Enrollment Verification work according to the handbook?
When does Ojeda's Elective Studio 3-9 perform?
What is the time duration for each class listed in the text?
What are the records of the 2024 Tartan Softball team at home, away and neutral fields?
What should be done if there is an academic interruption or serious medical issue affecting progress towards a Master’s degree?
What is the location of NM Los Angeles?
What are the class timings and location of 'Electronic and Thermal Properties of Metals, Semiconductors and Related Devices'?
What are the days and times of the Production Prep: Love and Money: 9-21 course?
What are the course codes and titles for Anglin's courses in User-Centered Research Methods for Product Innovation?
What are the names of the instructors and their respective courses in the given schedule?
What is the name of Ross' course in VMD Systems Studio?
What should students do if their workload becomes unexpectedly heavy?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in Organizational Ethics?
Who can obtain a copy of the annual security and fire safety report?
What is the time slot for Costume Design G in Production Prep: SOM 3?
 What does Table 13 indicate about the FLORES-200 languages?
 Where is the code related to the phenomenon of the framework tax available?
What are the days and time for Academic Skills for Engineers II?
Who is Jamie Callan?
Where and when does Bernstein 76474 take place?
What is the title of the course that starts at 12:30 PM on Tuesdays in room MM 312?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Szalkowski-Ference?
What additional level of support does the Student Support Resources team offer for students?
What is the policy regarding transferring into the MIIS program according to the text?
 What does the function Lc(st, st+1, st+c) measure in Building Latent Landmark Graphs?
What are the two options available on the 'Connect' page?
What are the class times for Scenic Design?
 What does the variable Nd denote in the experiments?
What is the title of the course that starts at TBA and ends at DNM in room HBH A301?
What are the days and times of Berardone's classes?
 What is the total number of individuals mentioned in the text?
What is the location of Hitchcock S4?
What is required for students receiving a stipend, being TAs or planning to work at CMU?
What was finally decided to name the school according to Newell's suggestion?
What are the days and times of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence for Engineers Lec MW 12:00PM 01:50PM SH 236 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the author of the text?
Where does Strojwas teach his Data Science for Software Engineering class?
What was the original name for the talks during LTI Orientation?
Which player's hometown/high school is Woodbury, Minn. / East Ridge?
Who are the instructors listed for the undergraduate independent study mini VAR A4, excluding Wenner E?
What are the days and times when Black and White Photography II is offered?
What are the names of the courses that start with a letter between 'A' and 'K'?
What is the title of the course being held at HL A10 from 12:30PM to 05:30PM on Friday?
What are the course codes for the courses offered at CMU?
What are the course codes for Proseminar in Entrepreneurial Leadership and Senior Preparation Seminar?
What are the days and times of the classes offered in San Jose, California?
When and where does Medical Devices take place?
When and where is Studio Project III held?
 What is the outcome of the evaluation results mentioned in the text regarding speech models?
What is the name of the course at CFA KRESGE from 3:00 PM to 3:50 PM?
Where does Special Topics in Signal Processing take place?
What is the time slot for Directing course?
What was the date and time of the SUNY Geneseo Mike Woods Invitational?
Do doctoral, visiting and certificate students receive vouchers?
 What type of grant supported the work mentioned in the acknowledgment?
What are the names of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 10:00 AM to 12:50 PM?
How will violations of cultural norms be dealt with in this program according to the text?
When does Moore A's first class take place?
 How is the output processing handled in the text processing component?
What are the course codes for the three StuCo courses mentioned in this text?
What is not eligible for Student Emergency Support funding at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: A Doll's House: Dramaturgy?
On which page of the handbook does this information apply?
Where did this person get their B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from?
What are the two topics discussed in this section?
What is a Short-Term Accommodation for Gestational Parents?
What are the course codes for the courses taught by Singh and Rabin?
What types of athletic/fitness activities are available at Carnegie Mellon University?
Why was early model checker technology not ready for wider use?
What is the purpose of section 5.1.3 in this text?
Who is the instructor for the Tuba class at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: TBA 8: Costume Design G?
What are the days and times of Vuocolo's classes?
What is the policy on grades for transfer courses?
 How many models are focused on for comparison in the text?
How many hours does Music and Technology Project take to complete?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-12 for Instructor TBA 90958 and Instructor TBA 90973?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule that start with the letter 'A'?
 How did XLM (Lample and Conneau, 2019) improve UNMT?
What should students do to minimize the impact of interview travel on their final semester course work?
What are the names of the teachers who teach at 3:00 PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is the subject of Linear Algebra and Vector Calculus for Engineers taught by Thornton A?
What is the URL of the Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline on the university's website?
Where does Literature and Repertoire: Woodwind take place?
Is the annual campus security and fire safety report available online?
What is Mediated Power and Propaganda course about?
What is the name of the instructor for Production Prep: Macbeth: VAR Directing?
How many units are required in total to earn an MSAII degree?
Who are the students that cannot receive a partial stipend for the semester they are on internship?
What is the title of Francioni Rooney's Ph.D. thesis?
When and where are Production Prep: SOM 1 Costume Design, Lighting Design I, and Sound Design K classes held?
Where can students find key resources for graduate student support according to the text?
 What difference in pass counts is mentioned between the 800B and 1000B checkpoints?
What are the names of the authors who wrote 'Internship 9-40 A'?
What is the relationship between Carnegie Mellon University and SCS?
 What do the authors focus on in this paper in relation to MMT?
Who are the visitors at Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the courses taught by Ragona and Chodos?
Where can students find more information about the Veterans and Military Community?
Where can students find information about dining locations, hours of operation, graduate student dining plans forms, nutritional information, and weekly menus for dining locations?
How can students obtain a copy of the annual campus security and fire safety report?
What is the course title of 67505?
What are the days, times, and location of Cardio Fitness/Sculpt classes?
What are the class names and their respective days for the classes that meet at DH 1209 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the guidelines for dropping or withdrawing from courses at Carnegie Mellon University?
In what room and at what time does the Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing class take place?
On which date did Women's Track hold fifth place after the first day of UAA Indoor Championships?
What is the author's opinion on how universities should impact society?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered on Tuesday at 07:00 PM?
What are the policies regarding withdrawal from MCDS program in LTI Academic Polices?
Where is the school located?
What is the course code for Intro to Health Psychology: SES and Health Inequalities?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What is the email address of The HUB Student Services Center at CMU?
In what city does Trujillo teach Research Methods in Cognitive Psychology?
What is the name of the course that starts with 'Production Prep: Want to be a Mother' and is taught by Hanson?
What are some new departments that were formed at Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
What are the contact details for more information about this program?
What was the name of the chamber ensemble that performed at the event?
What are the course codes for Statistical Methods in Machine Learning and Advanced Data Analysis I?
What is the current win-loss streak for the away games of the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
What is the role of self-exploration in Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the graduate programs offered in Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What city does Glymour teach in?
 Why are false positives mentioned in relation to the hypothesis tests?
Which instructor is teaching Production Data Manipulation in WEH 5201 at 3:30 PM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
 How is the convergence of V accelerated in the context of utility measure U?
How many people are listed in this text?
What is the name of the program being offered by Técnico (ULisboa) and Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course code of Dr. Kaess's independent study?
 How are the forward variables α(t, u) computed in the TDT model?
What are the names of the two courses that start with 'Topics in Second Language Acquisition'?
What is the course code for Professor Sioshansi's course?
How did Shafi Goldwasser use elliptic curves in her work?
What is the purpose of 'Just in Time' Workshops at the Student Academic Success team?
Can a student transfer out of the Ph.D. program?
What is the purpose of this application support program?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in room PH100 at 11:00 AM?
What are the names of the two courses that start at 4:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
What kind of funding is guaranteed for all LTI MLT students in their first year at Carnegie Mellon?
 What problem does using binning without logarithmic smoothing cause in the dataset distributions?
What is the topic of Integrated Innovation for Large-Scale Problems Lec?
What is the title of the Ph.D. thesis discussed in the text?
How can one collaborate with the program?
 What is the purpose of using a subset of FLORES-200 in the text?
What is the name of the first class on the schedule that starts at 10:00 AM and ends at 10:50 AM?
Who is Vicente Malave and what is his role?
What is the email address to send questions or comments about the site?
What is the URL of the Office of Graduate and Post-Doc Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many courses can MCDS students TA per semester if they are not in good academic standing?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the course 'Introduction to Information Security'?
What is the title of the course that starts at 02:00 PM and ends at 03:20 PM?
What are the names of the teachers and their respective class schedules?
When is the M.S. Research Final Presentation due?
What are the class times for Probability and Statistical Inference II?
Where does Francis Parker live compared to where Justin Yi lives?
What is the significance of Tartan in relation to this text?
Who teaches Alexander Technique for Musicians at DNM Pittsburgh?
How does Academic Coaching help students find and implement their conditions for success?
What are the names of the instructors for M.F.A. Contextual Practice?
 How many times are the source text tokens repeated to reduce the gap between speech and text inputs?
What are the days and times for Formal Methods: Topology?
 What does ROC stand for in the text?
What is the name of the course that starts on Monday, Wednesday at 4 PM in CMU REMOTE taught by Bartos B?
What is the location of Curtin Elective Studio?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product in the ARA region?
What are the days and times of Production Preparation Costume Production?
What are the class timings for Production Preparation: Costume Production?
What are some of the other goals set by the Tartan Athletics Club board?
What are the days and times of the Applied AI (Artificial Intelligence) course?
What is the purpose of the University Police Department at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
When and where does Bartos 84617 Defense PPBE in the Age of Emerging Technologies take place?
What are the time slots of Production Prep courses?
What event did Carnegie Mellon participate in on September 10th and 11th?
What is the role of the University Police in case of emergencies at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title of the Principles of Software Construction: Objects, Design, and Concurrency course?
What is the name of Irwin's Music 57010 Voice Studio Performance Class?
Where are Casale's classes held for Health Care Quality 4.0?
My school does not provide me with a 'major GPA,' how should I calculate it?
Who were two visitors from the United States that came to stay with the Berliner family in 1936?
What are some of the research policies governing activities at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times when Tech Startups: Tools and Techniques is offered?
What is the duration of the MCDS degree program?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the morning sessions?
Where does Justin Yi live?
What are the names of the instructors for class 82794?
What is the course name of 'Lec U 04:00PM 04:50PM CMB 3178'?
What is the title of the class that starts at 10:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday in room TEP 2111?
What are the three different times for 'Lear: Costume Design G'?
What is the purpose of the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
When and where is the study abroad program taking place?
Does Carnegie Mellon University offer housing to graduate students?
What is the policy on grades for transfer courses?
What is the name of the center that focuses on student's career development?
What does LTI stand for in this text?
What is the height of player number [Number] in meters?
What is the name of the class that Blackwood teaches at MEL 102 on Tuesday from 02.00 PM to 03.50 PM?
What are the names of the speakers for the course 'D W'?
What is the name of the instructor teaching 'The Culture of Color: Dyes, Chemistry, and Sustainability'?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Penelope' on Wednesdays?
What are some additional resources mentioned in Appendix A?
 What problem arises when evaluating different code generation models?
What are the course codes for Start Up Creation in Practice and its instructor?
What are the instructors' names for each course in the schedule?
How many individuals are listed as instructors in this text?
What is the name of the course that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM in SH 236?
What are the course codes for Ph.D. Thesis Proposal and Business Administration 45700 Financial and Managerial Accounting I?
 What is the role of the joint network in an RNN-T model?
What is the purpose of a student replacing a course with an open elective if they receive credit for prior coursework?
When does Advanced Digital Signal Processing class take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the Escort Service at CMU?
When is Garrod and Blelloch's class B held at WEH 4708?
What instrument does Berntsen play in the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
 What method is used to select pseudo-labels for ensuring the uniqueness of generated examples?
What are the two types of Probability and Statistics courses offered by Pena in this schedule?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Squash B1 in the Fall 2023 semester?
What are the titles of the two courses taught by Pasetes at PH A19A on Monday through Friday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What is the significance of 'Pennsylvania' in relation to WEH 5201?
What are some of James Gosling's notable contributions to software development?
What is the email address for contacting Robert Frederking directly?
How many production preparation courses are listed?
What kind of information can be found on the Research at Carnegie Mellon website?
What happens if a graduate student parks in a permit area without a permit or at an expired meter?
What is the main purpose of the program according to the text?
Who are the authors listed in numerical order?
What is the name of the course that starts at 6:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room CFA 206A?
What are the names of the five Design Thesis Practicum courses mentioned in the text?
 What is the result of processing the bottleneck features by K stacked multi-path blocks in the proposed model?
What is Graham Neubig's position at Carnegie Mellon University?
What was the date and time of the Men's Tennis team's event at Duquesne?
How can you connect with the Language Technologies Institute?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): Lighting Design?
What is the course level for each course?
What is the name of the course that starts at 07:00PM on Wednesday?
What is the name of the instructor for student A in Major Studio (Voice)?
In which room does Paradigms of Research in Architecture take place?
 What is the number of clusters set to for 2D tasks that use CIFAR-10 as the source dataset?
What is the name of the organization that offers Internship One for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD Students in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times of the classes for 57101 Introduction to Music Technology and 57106 Elective Studio (Jazz Piano I Class)?
 What is one of the main benefits of explicit alignment approaches like CTC, RNN-T, or RNA models?
 What does the stress state of the crack tip indicate under the action of fatigue load in a specimen with a corrosion pit?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
How can students access academic coaching and subject-specific tutoring at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in Sender Media Design?
 What impressive results are shown in the text for both a simulated drone and physical quadruped in outdoor environments?
Why do people from underrepresented backgrounds lack access to guidance in the higher degree application process?
 What does the text suggest about the relationship between AGR and overall survival in NSCLC patients?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday at 10:00 AM in room DH A301D?
What is the course code and title of the course offered on Monday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM?
What is an 'LTI course' and how many units does it count?
What is the course code for 'Advocacy, Policy and Practice'?
When are the courses 'Visual Communication for Innovators: A2' and 'Visual Communication for Innovators: B2' taking place?
I have already uploaded my Resume/Statement of Purpose, but I made revisions and would like to submit the new version.
 How is the hidden vector hint of an intermediate encoder layer used?
What is the name of the course taught by Audia and what are its details?
Who are College Liaisons and what do they do?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for the courses listed in the schedule?
What are the names of Erdmann's classes on Tuesday?
Where can students find information about the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the name of the course that teaches about 'Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop'?
At what time does Tarnopolskiy's Quantum Mechanics II lecture start?
 According to the text, what could future work explore in terms of generating patches?
When and where are the classes held at GHC 4303?
How can students access Health Services at CMU?
What is the purpose of Professional Development according to section 6.8?
What was the final score of the Women's Basketball game between Rochester and Carnegie Mellon?
What is the maximum number of courses that can be dropped in this text?
 What metrics are used to evaluate the models in the text?
What is the role of College Liaisons in supporting graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can you find the University's Sexual Misconduct Policy?
 What is the main reason for the superior performance of the model on OTT-QA?
What is the name of the department that offers the PhD in Language and Information Technologies?
What happens if students expect to work on a federally funded project?
What is the course code for Machine Learning with Large Datasets?
What are the names of all instructors listed in this text?
What protocols are in place to support parental needs of students and their families?
What are the two different time slots for Ozis B R in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What has led to the development of efficient model architectures for language processing?
What was Herbert Simon instrumental in developing at the College of Humanities and Social Sciences' Psychology Department?
What are the programs that do not follow any early deadlines and have an application fee of $100?
Who teaches the courses in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Monday and Wednesday at 11:00AM?
What is the difference between transfer credit and course exemption at LTI?
What services does the Student Academic Success Center offer?
What is the deadline for reportable TOEFL, IELTS and/or GRE scores if you are studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa?
 What is the hypothesis regarding when to retrieve in active retrieval augmented generation?
Where does Undergraduate Internship take place?
What year does this handbook cover?
What are the course names for classes B4 on Monday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM and Wednesday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM?
 What are some of the static pretrained models that are discussed in the text?
What are the two main categories of courses included in the MCDS Course Map?
Who are the students who participated in Independent Study 1-24 in this text?
Who teaches the Costume Design class?
What was the outcome of the Tartans' match against Division II West Virginia Wesleyan?
What is the name of Garrod and Blelloch's class held at WEH 4708 on MWF from 10:00AM to 10:50AM?
What is the location of V1?
What is the title of the advanced laboratory in speech recognition?
What is the location of Zhou's lecture in the given schedule?
Where can students find more information about the grade appeal process at their university?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching section 51782?
Where can students find ATM services at the University Center?
What are the instructors' names of the two classes listed in the schedule?
 What does the Absorption Ångström Exponent (AAE) help determine?
What is the course code for Colloids, Polymers and Surfaces (CPS) Lab III?
What is an example-tracing tutor in CTAT?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What does the author suggest students should do if they cannot meet these standards?
How many innings did the softball game between Washington (Mo.) and Carnegie Mellon last on Fri, Apr/07?
What is the course code for MSCF Business Communication II A?
What are the social media platforms used by the organization?
What is the course code for Introduction to Modern Chemistry II?
What is the title of 05997 Reading and Research in HCI?
 Why is utilizing multi-objective approaches in the search process considered important in the mobile domain?
Who are the instructors at Schepkin?
Who is Van Hoesen collaborating with in event DD?
What are the names of the companies that manufacture the equipment in the temporary facility?
 Why is it important to adapt the frames to different languages and cultures?
What are the names of the two instructors who teach 'Erdmann, Kaynar T W' and 'Acar, Sleator E T', respectively?
 What is the condition for a list to be considered decreasing according to the text?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching Senior Capstone II and Senior Capstone?
When and where does Maker Series: Intro to Modern Making take place?
What are the days and times of Advanced Film Production's classes?
What is the name of the B class?
Who should be contacted for inquiries about the application of and compliance with the statement of assurance at Carnegie Mellon University?
What has been Edmund Melson Clarke's career focus?
When and where does Production Prep: Sender: Stage Management take place?
I am in a five-year program and will be awarded a master's degree. Do I enter this in the Undergraduate or Graduate section?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Embedded Systems'?
 What are the root causes of substantial memory/compute costs, algorithmic instability, and a lack of distributed training support in gradient-based meta learning?
What is the location of the Parking and Transportation Services office?
What are the names of the courses that start at 7:00 PM on Wednesday in CFA A6?
What does the fellowship include for LTI MLT students at Carnegie Mellon?
In which room is Multilevel Modeling held?
Who are the instructors for the two Grand Challenge Seminars listed?
What are the instructors of the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the author listed second in this text?
 What type of classification is associated with the `truncate_number` function in the text?
Who are the instructors at Quesenberry's school?
What is the significance of transfer credit and course exemptions in the context of graduate programs?
What are the names of the other courses taught by Brown on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday (MTWR) at 6:30 PM - 10:30 PM?
When does the course with the course code 10422 take place?
Where should one direct inquiries about the application and compliance of section 1.4?
What is the name of each class?
What is the name of the course offered by Hovis that involves arts?
What are the minimum requirements for a student in Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
When was the EPP Ph.D. Thesis Research conducted?
What is Rashid's connection to Star Trek?
When does Of Minorities and Migrants: Exploring Germany from the Margins take place?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 9:00 AM on Tuesday and Thursday in San Jose, California?
What is the maximum duration for which academic stipend funding can be extended during a Short-Term Maternity Accommodation or Formal Leave of Absence?
Where and when is the Secure Software Systems course held?
What is the role of surface engineering and industrial coatings in improving material durability?
What date did the article about Allen being honored publish?
What are the resources available to assist students in understanding community expectations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of creating a Quiz in CTAT?
What time does Knox's literature and repertoire event start?
What are the dual degree programs offered by this institution?
Where is Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science located?
Which conference is mentioned in the text?
Which courses are taught by Maksoud Botcha on Monday and Wednesday?
What time does Software for Large-Scale Data meet?
What was the reason for taking samples from the walls of the reactor's basement during the TMI sweep up?
What is the name of the course taught by Whitefoot at GHC 5222?
 In which month does MERRA-2 have the maximum absolute difference in dust concentration compared to GRASP/Component in the TAK region?
 Does the dataset contain sensitive or confidential information?
 Why is it important to probe LMs based on CxG theory?
 What approach does OpenMatch-v2 use for efficient data accessing during training and inference?
 What is used for mention extraction in the model?
When are the classes for Introduction to Engineering and Public Policy held?
What is the office location where Dr. Lori Levin can be contacted?
What is the location and time for the third Japanese class listed?
What is the name of the article that Megan Matsko wrote about basketball?
What is required for individuals who want to join the Tartan Athletics Club?
Which event does athlete #3 specialize in?
How many library liaisons, consultants, and information specialists are available to assist students at the University Libraries?
What are the names and instructors of the two Directing classes?
In what room is Advanced Computing and Problem Solving in Civil and Environmental Engineering being taught again?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Tuesdays from 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM in A19, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the two main categories of services provided in section 6?
Where is the class 'Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing' held?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study 95908?
What are the names of Bedillion's two classes?
What is the title of the Graduate Research Seminar I?
What is the purpose of providing office space for full-time students in the LTI’s MLT program?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
Who are the instructors involved in production management class C for 'A Doll's House'?
What is the course code for Python for Data Science II?
How many Capstone courses do all MCDS students complete?
What is the name of the course being taught by Handel in Graduate Playwriting II?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Information Networking Project and Special Topics: Competitive Embedded System Design and Exploitation?
What is the main focus of the author's research?
Who teaches the lecture of Signals and Systems that starts at 12:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
Who are the instructors for the course 'Changing your brain' in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How was the calibration factor calculated for each run?
 What does the AL value represent in the context of evaluation?
What happens if a student fails to submit their grade report on time in Carnegie Mellon University?
What was the emergency plan that Traub had in place when his budget got reduced?
 What type of models often serve as the foundation in cascade systems for information retrieval?
 How does the probability of ties change as the number of relevant items increases?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in Production Prep?
 What is FaithDial and how did it address the issue identified in the knowledge-grounded dialog task?
What is the name of the instructor for the Advanced Skills in English Diction Special Topics in Music class?
What is the name of the course that starts at 02:00PM and ends at 03:50PM on Tuesday, Thursday?
Where does Palchesko teach his sophomore BME research project class?
Who is Scotty?
Where did Whipple graduate from?
 With what probability are LiDAR point clouds coordinates flipped along the x or y axis?
What is the name of the course that Akinci is taking at 12791 in the schedule?
Who is the speaker in this text?
Where was Instructor TBA AC's course held?
What is the course code for Rafson's class?
What are the class times for Media Design?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering and Introduction to Computer Systems?
When is the class 'Business Presentations For Product Managers' held?
Where can students review the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
When and where are Professor Matthews, Muller's courses offered?
Where does Adelaide Hall live/come from?
When and where does Carnegie Scenic take place?
Who is the author of Houser, Porter Masters Project?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
Can I transfer into a Ph.D. program from another college/university?
 How was the prognostic value of MRI features evaluated for postoperative intrahepatic RFS?
Where can students find information on how to connect with consultants in scholarly publishing, research data management, and digital humanities?
When was Carnegie Mellon University's mascot first introduced?
What are the requirements for admission to the dual-degree Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies?
What is the course taught by Professor Shackleford at 9:00AM on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday in room PCA 115?
Under what section does it talk about withdrawal of a degree?
 How is the TDT model open-sourced according to the text?
What are the class times for the course 'Introduction to Human Computer Interaction for Technology Executives'?
What should an instructor do if they believe a grade was assigned in error?
What are the course codes for 'The Beatles' and 'Jazz Instrumental Ensemble: Jazz Orchestra', respectively?
What does 'CMU' stand for?
What are the days and times that class 17437 - Web Application Development is offered?
What is the name of the class taught by Mr. Boevers in PCA 304 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 11:00 AM?
 Which domains have the strongest positive effects on downstream performance, as shown in the text?
What is the name of the instructor for 79210 Identity, Ethnicity, and Place in Modern China?
What is the course code and title for the class held in room HBH 1002 at 9:30 AM?
 What architectures were experimented with as the encoder?
 What is the effect of the proposed method on the safety of the converter?
What was the outcome of the UAA Championships?
Where does Community Engagement Performance take place according to the schedule provided?
What are the class timings for History of Rhetoric: The Classical Age and Its Legacy?
Where do the classes take place according to the text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Music 57101 Introduction to Music Technology?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the main idea of the last sentence in the text?
 What is the type of instances found in the dataset?
 What is the training objective of FROMAGe?
What was the duration of the event?
Who teaches at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): French Horn OB?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Anderson and Woodruff's courses on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday?
What is the course code and title of the last class listed in the schedule?
Who is responsible for assigning grades according to University policy?
What are the days and times that the course '54806 New Play Development Lab - Dramatic Writers' is held?
Where did the first Crypto conference take place?
Where and when is Steinfeld's Special Topics in HCI course being held?
What is the role of department in the process of appealing for final grades?
Where is Jafry teaching Internship 3.0?
What are the course codes, instructors, and times for Software Engineering for Startups (Goel 17801)?
What are the days and times for Undergraduate Research held in DNM, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the morning at PTC MPR Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does the Co-Teaching approach deal with correcting noisy labels?
Who are the instructors at TBA NB in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the backbone span-based QA model used in the experiments?
How long do students have to finish their required course work after receiving an 'I' grade?
What are the days and times when Mcgowan is teaching Interdisciplinary Independent Study at OFF CAMPUS Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are Eric Nyberg's research areas?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study 90958?
What are the timings of Watson C's class (76101) in Doha, Qatar?
What are the grounds for dismissal from the program according to the MCDS committee?
What happens if applicants have GRE scores more than five years old?
Who is encouraged to self-identify with the Office of Disability Resources and request needed accommodations?
What are the names and instructors' numbers for the two multimedia design courses?
What are the three theses being offered in the given schedule?
 In the experiments, which model is used by default for compression of activations?
Who developed MIME, a standard used by all email programs to send photos and other files over the Internet?
What is the purpose of professional development according to the student handbook?
 What is the architecture of the system called MQTTS designed for?
What high school did William Burger attend?
What are the locations of each production prep session?
What are the duration of study and double-dipping policies in MCDS?
What are the days and times of the week for each course listed in the schedule?
What are the approved qualifying courses for Any course from the following list is an approved qualifying course.?
Who are the instructors for the Costume Forum class?
What are the course codes for the courses taught by Yurko and Lei?
What is the location and date for Instructor TBA's class?
Who teaches Physics 33104 Experimental Physics Lecture 3?
 What is the goal of KALE in terms of generating semantic concepts?
Who is Mona Diab and what is her role in Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the class taught by Moseley W UMTR?
 What is considered when calculating sentence uncertainty in the text?
If I submit my application before the early deadline, when must my recommenders also submit their letters?
How does the Graduate Education Office work with departments on issues related to graduate students?
What are the names of the courses taught by Cervesato and Kaynar in Flushing?
What are the days and times of Eshelman's class related to production preparation for A Little Night Music?
What is the website link to access more information about the services provided by the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What position did Shortridge serve in from 1939 to 1943?
Who should report accidents on CMU property?
Who can provide an official enrollment verification for students?
What are the two production preparation classes mentioned in this text that start with 'A'?
What are the days and times when Graduate Research Seminar II takes place?
What are the days and times of Management Consulting taught by Brussalis?
Who manages the Student Emergency Support Funding process in Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where is Programming Language Pragmatics held?
 List three supported tasks in AudioGPT according to Table 1.
 What is the motivation for combining the passage centrality score and the full-text retrieval ranker score?
Where are the classes 'Teaching Methodologies for the Foreign Language Classroom II: 9.0' and 'Directed Study in Modern Languages' held?
What are the course codes for the three Grand Challenge seminars mentioned in this text?
 How is the issue of decoupling the joint learning of links and relations mitigated?
What is the contact information for University Police at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the conference mentioned in the text?
What is the primary purpose of research at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course taught by Matthews and Vinchesi in lecture D TR 12:30PM - 02:50PM?
Who are the teachers listed in this text?
What is the main focus of the group's work according to the text?
What instrument does Advanced Music Studies Studio offer classes for in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of DeSantis' Special Topics: Tech Start-up: Building Your Own Company?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA on HOA 223?
Where is Family Business taught by Meyer Grelli held?
Where and when does Building Virtual Worlds take place?
What is the course title and instructor's name for the class that meets on Monday, Wednesday from 11:30 AM to 12:45 PM in CMB 1031?
 Why is accurately modeling low wind conditions important in climate model projections?
What are the days of the week when Dietrich Introductory Seminar: College & University Success Strategies is offered at different times?
What position does Grace Starr play?
What is the Employment Eligibility Verification Policy at CMU?
What is the course code for Seminar in Film and Media Studies: Novelistic Television?
 What assumption is made about the ratio of honest clients to malicious clients in a federated system?
What is the name of the department that provides dining services for students at the university?
Where was Practicum in Computer Science written?
How many courses are listed in this schedule?
What are the names of the courses being offered in Managing Through Incentives and AI Applications in Business?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor Peng?
Is it acceptable or commonplace for students to use resources, including other persons, except as authorized by their course or project?
What is the name of the course mentioned in the last line?
What is the course code for Maker Series: Intro to Modern Making taught by Harvilla on Friday from 12:00PM-01:50PM in ANS B10, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What should a student do if they have questions about process or other concerns while navigating conflicts?
Where does the Evidence-Based Educational Design course take place?
What is the title of the stage management class?
Where and when does Design Thesis Prep I take place?
Who are the instructors for Human Information Processing and Artificial Intelligence: 9.0?
What is the policy on external employment and consulting in MIIS program?
When and where will Advocacy, Policy and Practice be held?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study in Literature and Repertoire?
 What is the importance of community-specific investigations according to the text?
What is the purpose of the annual security and fire safety report?
What is the purpose of the PCHE and Cross-registration policy at CMU?
Who teaches Advanced Computing and Problem Solving in Civil and Environmental Engineering?
How can a student find the library liaison in their field of study?
What is the name of the event where athletes dive into a pool from a high platform?
 What did Pritchett et al. recently suggest about CD8+TILs in AITL?
What is the name of the lighting design class for Lorca?
What is the title of the author's graduate thesis?
How many athletes are on the roster for the 2023-24 season?
What was the final score of the game between #11 NYU and Carnegie Mellon on Fri, Feb/16?
What is the name of the course that starts at 10:30AM on Friday in PCA 103?
Who are the instructors teaching in the Professional Development for PhD students, Project Management, Organizational Ethics, Essence of Strategy, Executive Leadership, Operations Management, and Essentials of Financial Reporting classes?
 How do the curves of corroded specimens fluctuate during crack propagation?
What is the name of the first class in the text?
Are all the instructors mentioned in this text located in different cities or places?
What is the name of Vincent Naik's lecture on Experimental Cell and Developmental Biology?
Where is Computing Services located?
What are the names of the authors listed alphabetically?
Who teaches Introduction to Flameworking: TBA C and what are its timings?
 What function is used to stretch the output of the sigmoid function to the interval [l, r]?
What are the class codes for Music Education Composition Concert and Computer Technology in Music Education?
What kind of feedback do consultants provide to clients?
What are the names of the instructors for Elective Studio (Electric Bass), Elective Studio (Guitar), and Elective Studio (Flute)?
What is the course being offered by instructor Blackwood?
What are the days, times, and instructors of Organic Chemistry II classes offered at WEH 5302?
What are the days and times for Designing Human-Centered Software A?
What was the result of the Washington & Jefferson Diving Invitational?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
Where can students find more information about Carnegie Mellon's Student Health Insurance policy?
 How do annotations predicted by PaLM-2 models compare to the ones produced by state-of-the-art supervised word-level evaluators?
What is the additional information provided about Ph.D. programs at LTI?
What did Michael Loren 'Fuzzy' Mauldin do in televised BattleBots competitions?
What types of projects are open for applications according to the text?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Wednesday at 11:00 AM?
What is the course name for 57606?
Which player's hometown is in Georgia?
What is the relationship between the LTI cluster and Ph.D. students' course assignments?
When and where is PSE Seminar being held?
What is the purpose of section 5.2 in this text?
What are the courses offered on Tuesday at 02:00 PM?
What rights do students have under the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)?
Who teaches Human Health and Disease in Doha, Qatar?
What is the course name for the class that starts at 02:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room TEP 2110?
Who can use the swimming and diving pool at Carnegie Mellon University's facility?
What are the names of the courses that start at 11:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What should students do if they are engaged in research?
 What is the key innovation that distinguishes ORCA from naive fine-tuning?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses taught by Skirpan, Dabbish in Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing?
What is the course code for Electronic and Computer Music?
Who can participate in Peer Tutoring at the Academic Success Center?
What is the purpose of Campus Wellness at this institution?
 What are some AI innovations typically used for?
What is the purpose of careful planning and consultation in student's situation?
What is the name of Vincent Naik's lecture on Systems Neuroscience?
Who is working for the Costume Design section?
 What is the challenge in automatically choosing a value for the hyperparameter in discriminative captioning?
 Why do current NLP attacks often fail to find adversarial sequences in text-only models?
When is Environmental Systems on a Changing Planet held?
 What is the benefit of self-training in the context of the strategies discussed?
What is the name of the magazine published by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science for news and events updates?
What are the dates and times of Service Design Leadership for Tackling Complexity course?
 What is the title of the article by Tulsky et al. published in Arch. Phys. Med. Rehabil. in 2011?
How many weeks is a typical summer vacation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
 Describe the relationship between the stress intensity factor and crack length with respect to the crack depth ratio.
What is the course code and location of User-Centered Research and Evaluation A?
What is the significance of Sylvania Erol's work for future generations of mathematicians?
 What are some techniques used to align base models with certain desired principles?
What are the days and times of the Introduction to Biological Laboratory Practices class?
 What are some key regions mentioned for comparisons of mineral dust column concentration globally?
What are the names of the instructors for Major Studio (Violin) 9.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Why is it not possible to train a reliable pre-trained language model for ILA?
What are the days and time slots of the 'Special Topics in ICT: Advanced Quantitative Financial Analytics and Algorithmic Trading' class?
What was the position of Tartans in Golfweek DIII Fall Invite according to the news on October 17, 2023?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on W from 8:30 PM to 9:45 PM in TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does the source domain knowledge benefit the AL process in NER tasks?
 What tool is used to summarize stories before presenting them to annotators?
What are the names of the courses taught by Carlock?
What is the purpose of the programming and events offered by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
 What is the ideal prompt m for estimating k?
 What is the underlying belief behind the creation of GlobalBench?
What are the course codes and their respective titles in the given schedule?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching 'Production Prep: Put Your House in Order' on Monday and Wednesday evenings?
Can students take courses through a cross-registration program with other institutions besides Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the date of the softball game?
What is the name of Puccini's Operas course at DNM Pittsburgh?
Where is Pittsburgh located?
What is the course code for Introduction to Level Design in PTC 5208?
How tall is Grace Starr?
 Give an example of an incorrect result in the Mask-CTC decoding process when the masked sequence is different from the correct sequence.
What is Microsoft Research known for among for-profit corporations?
What is the name of the class that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 12:50 PM in room B23 109?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for HBH 1206 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the target audience for this website?
 According to the text, what are some examples of documents created for endangered languages?
Are students required to inform the LTI about any external funding they receive?
What is the purpose of Appendix A in this text?
 What is the impact of an increase in CD8+TILs on the prognosis of AITL?
What are the course names, instructors and timings for EPP Project Research?
Does the University reimburse for taxes?
Who teaches Product Discovery & Definition: 6.0 at B23 109 in San Jose, California?
What are the names of the speakers at the Dance/Light class?
What is the policy on Leaves of Absence (LOA) in LTI?
How many points did Holmes record in the game against Rochester?
What are the course codes for courses that start with 'ry'?
Where can students find up-to-date shuttle and escort schedules, pick-up/drop-off locations, routes, and usage policies?
What are the days and times when 'Showcase' is scheduled?
Who is Shafi?
Will I be considered for financial support if I am admitted?
 How many examples were removed by deduplication from the total examples in CIFAR-10?
What are the names of the three professors teaching Repertoire and Listening for Musicians I?
What are the names of the instructors for courses 27766 and 27991?
When do the Costume Production sessions take place?
What are the days/times for Economics and Data Science (course code 73265)?
Who is the head coach of the 2023 Tartans Men's Soccer team?
 Which month had the maximum relative difference in BC column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval over the SUS region?
What is the goal of Eberly's dissemination of evidence-based teaching strategies?
What is ORIC's role in export controls?
Where can students find information about enrollment verification at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does the Integrated Product Development with Boatwright, Ayoob, and Bodily start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is Graham Neubig's office located?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:30 AM on Monday and Tuesday?
What are the subjects of study for each author listed in this text?
What is expected from students supported by sponsored research, fellowships or scholarships?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed below?
What is the URL of the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University's official website?
How many Rape Agression Defense Systems (RAD) classes are there in total at CUC ACTVY in Pittsburgh?
What are the days and times of A's schedule?
Where will they play their game on Sunday, March 21st?
What is the course code for 'Data Analytics for Materials Science' taught by O'Connor?
Where is the Graduate Student Lounge located?
 Who are the authors of the paper on AdaSpeech 3?
Who are the co-founders of Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science recognized by the magazine's name?
In what year did athlete number 12 join the roster?
 What does the text suggest about combining the method with more complex acquisition functions?
What are the courses offered for PhD program in Machine Learning?
What is the role of self-exploration in maintaining academic integrity?
Where does Parallel Computer Architecture and Programming take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What kind of professional development opportunities does the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offer?
What are the main categories of programs offered by the university's School of Computer Science?
What is the course code for Harvesting Personal Narratives: A Writing Workshop?
 Which model has the highest FER value on the Rom-orth dataset?
 What is the impact of compressing activations for models trained using model parallelism?
Do non-native English speakers have to meet specific language proficiency requirements?
Who are the instructors at this school?
 What method does the text propose to use for filtering to approximate the reverberant image Xp(c) at non-reference microphones?
What is the name of the speaker who talks at 9:00AM?
Can students take courses from other universities through the university's cross-registration program?
What is the schedule for 'Production Prep: Mr. Burns Production Management'?
What is the purpose of the Career and Professional Development Center?
How can one obtain a copy of the annual security and fire safety report?
 How is the labeled dataset constructed for semi-supervised learning?
 What is the Tensor-Train decomposition and how does it differ from the Tucker decomposition?
What are the two options available on the menu bar of the website?
When is the 'Lighting Production' class held?
What are the days and times of the class that meets in TEP 2612 with Major 70481 Marketing Research?
 What is the algorithm name for the efficient gradient-descent solution to solve the optimization problem of estimating VFO-VT model parameters?
Where are Interaction Design Fundamentals, Designing Human Centered Software A, B, C, User-Centered Research and Evaluation held?
What happens if a student receives credit for exempted courses?
 Why is human evaluation considered crucial when assessing the generated text?
What is the significance of the School of Computer Science's 25th anniversary?
 What is used to host an offline version of English Wikipedia with a knowledge cutoff of May 2023?
What is the default letter grade if a student fails to complete their remaining work?
 What is the highest value of CustomROUᶜᵗˣMETᶜᵗˣWERᶜᵗˣBERT-SᶜᵗˣSBERTᶜᵗˣSmatchᶜᵗˣPPLᶜᵗˣNSPCtxSimFit listed in the table for GPT-3.5 model in contextual rewrite type?
How can students access Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)?
What is the course code for Introduction to Deep Learning?
 What does the PET framework stand for?
 How are solar PV and wind energy power outputs affected by meteorological conditions?
What is the course name and instructor's name for the Societal Computing Pre-Thesis class held by Carley?
 What is one of the initial solutions proposed in the text to improve the scalability of gradient-based meta learning?
What are some upcoming guest lectures at Language Technologies Institute?
What is the course code of Guided Research?
 How does the model rank top 100 passage chains during inference time?
Where is the 'Smart Cities: Growth and Intelligent Transportation Systems' session held?
What is the main reason why chess is useful for AI research according to Campbell?
What are the names of all instructors listed in this text?
What is the course code for the 'Sophomore Chemical Engineering Seminar'?
Where can students obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University?
How many additional weeks may academic stipend funding be extended if an absence is medically necessary and longer than six weeks?
 Which product, MERRA-2 or GRASP/Component dust retrieval, overestimates dust column concentration in the ARA region throughout the year?
 What was the outcome when applying DP-SGD to the diffusion model codebase in the text?
In which city is the course 'Clinical Data Science' located?
What is the name of the course that teaches JIVE - CMU Jazz Choir?
Who are the instructors for the course 'Practicum in Statistics (Mini)'?
What are the lecture times for Computer Graphics?
What is the title of the lecture by Achnanasia?
Who taught the course 'Introduction to Greek Mythology'?
 What is the agreement rate of the annotators in this study?
How tall is Maggie Doherty?
What is the course name for 17950 in the schedule?
When and where does 'Theory and Analysis for Graduate Students' take place?
What is the location of the first event listed in the text?
What does 'Satisfactory Progress' mean in the context of this text?
What is the purpose of providing a link to the Human Resources Service website for more information about Form I-9 and E-Verify?
On which day did the CMU Diving Invitational take place?
What is the purpose of practice requirements at MIIS?
When should independent study contracts be submitted?
What is the fax number of Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the phone number of Robert Frederking, Principal Systems Scientist and Director of MLT?
Who are some pioneers mentioned in the article related to advances in computer chess?
 What does EP use to derive qnew(θ) in the approximate inference algorithm?
In which city does this course take place?
What are the names of the teachers who teach on Tuesdays at 9:00 AM?
Who are eligible to receive Affiliate ID Cards?
What should students be aware of before signing any IP agreements related to their internships?
What are the days and times of Interpretation and Argument?
What is the course code for Physics-Based Rendering?
What are the first names of all authors listed in this text?
What is the topic of the text?
What are the titles of the two courses taught by Hua at PH A21 on Monday through Friday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM?
 What is the purpose of the multi-pass fusion method in the beam search algorithms?
What is the name of the class that takes place from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM with Instructor TBA?
When and where does Research Practicum take place?
What was the name of the event held on March 10 and 11 for Men's Golf?
What is the name of the course taught by Boevers and Hines at MTWRF 06:30PM 10:30PM TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where is 'Captured Storytelling' offered?
 What factors jointly influenced the cumulative enhancement of PM2.5 concentrations during the pollution episode?
What was the recent news about Women's Swimming and Diving?
What does the SMART program provide for varsity student-athletes?
What are the class times and locations for Williams F3?
What is the publication history of this work?
Are pass/fail grades allowed in PhD programs according to the given text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the given text?
How many years ago was the first event shown in the text?
What is the location of this text?
What is the course name for Psychology Research Training at TBA TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the authors of LTI Practicum by Callan?
What are the names of Zaffora Blando's three classes in this schedule?
Which department provides computing and information resources to the university community?
What is the location of Music 57010 Voice Studio Performance Class?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about innovation in services and experiences?
 How is symmetric noise introduced to CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100?
What is the policy for winter break in terms of work hours and vacation time?
What are the locations and times of all classes taught by Fried, Welleck?
What are the days and times for Smith's Convex Optimization course?
Where will each department's production prep sessions take place?
What are the names of all courses listed in this text that start at a time labeled as 'A' and end at a time labeled as 'DNM'?
Who are the instructors for Trumpet PA and Trumpet PB in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of Yao's class 'Structure of Chinese'?
Why did Berliner accuse Mikhail Botvinnik of fraud?
Who is the instructor for Directed Research A?
What are the class names for the two classes that start at 04:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday in room DH 1211?
What should I do if I forgot to submit a required document or form?
How many instructors are listed in the text?
 How can users easily reset the website environment to its initial state?
Who is instructing for Media Design L course?
Which awards and honors did Dr. Newell receive during his career?
What is the timeframe mentioned for potential transformation by computer science according to Reddy?
What is the sport that Carnegie Mellon University plays on Wed, Mar/06 against Trinity (Tex.)?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What is the name of the course where students can learn about different types of piano maintenance?
 Which benchmarks are widely used for Code LLMs?
What is the minimum grade requirement for MCDS students?
When does the Product & Business Modeling with Fang start in San Jose, California?
 How often is the performance of StarCoderBase evaluated during training?
What are the days and times of Percussion Ensemble?
Where can students find information about the university's research policies?
What is the course code for 'Multilevel Modeling 9.0'?
What are the days and times for Undergraduate Seminar VI held in DH 2302, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the role of RSLI in supporting students' spiritual and religious practice at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does the Software Management Practicum class meet?
What was the result of ChipTest's performance in 1987?
What does the word 'Pennsylvania' mean in English?
 What do implicit and explicit query formulation methods effectively reflect according to Table 6?
What is mentioned in the text about a challenging academic environment?
Which two universities are leading in Black Student-Athlete history according to the article published on February 26?
 What is the latent variable in the model described in the text?
What is required to use a photocopier?
What are the names of the instructors for Systems Engineering and Management for Robotics (course code: 16642)?
Where does Barrois teach in his independent study?
 What kind of activation function is used in each transformer block of Jais?
When is Cervesato's lecture on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
 What are the two different diffusion schedules mentioned in the text?
 What is the name of the large-scale dataset and benchmark suite for semantic segmentation of LiDAR point clouds under adverse weather conditions?
What is their schedule for the next week?
 How were the hard distractors chosen for the study?
Who teaches Keyboard Studies 3.0 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs?
How many pages does this handbook have?
What are the three Production Prep sessions for SOM 2?
 What is the sequential recommendation task aimed at?
What are the names of the two presentations for Computational Finance?
What does 'acknowledgment' mean in the context of creativity?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Where will the third meet be held?
What are the timings for 'Elective Studio (Piano)'?
What is the schedule for Wiegand Gymnasium during Spring Semester?
 What is the blind deconvolution problem mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes for the French and German diction classes?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Physics II for Biological Sciences & Chemistry Students at UTR 4:00PM-5:15PM?
What is the purpose of this university policy according to the text?
When and where does Graduate Reading and Research take place?
What are the three breadth courses mentioned in this text?
What is double counting courses?
What are the class times for Engineering Statistics and Quality Control?
What is the registration process for the program?
What is the role of Julie Nys in administering the LTI Ph.D. degree?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 10:00 AM and is taught by Nguyen A and Nguyen B?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
What is the significance of mentioning 'Fun Fact' after discussing the Scottish terrier being chosen as Carnegie Mellon's mascot?
 According to the detailed evaluation results, what attribute has an Overall Hallucination Score of 2.43?
What are the days and times of Statistical Graphics and Visualization class?
Where can graduate students find information about financial aid at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where is the Applied Data Analysis 1 course held?
Where are the two courses 'Data, Inference, and Applied Machine Learning' and 'Introduction to Deep Learning and Pattern Recognition for Computer Vision Part I' held?
What are the names of the books in Translation as a Profession III: 3.0 class?
What are the highlighted university resources for graduate students according to Appendix A.1?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Advanced Fabrication 2'?
Where can students find more detailed information about athletic facilities at Carnegie Mellon?
What is required to receive an MCDS degree?
What are the course codes for Kline's Paradigms of Research in Architecture VAR and Nisa's Graduate Seminar 2: Issue of Global Urbanization?
 How do some architectural innovations increase inference latency?
What is the name of the person teaching the Internship course?
What is the email address of Kemal Oflazer?
What is expected from Master’s students who require longer than the standard time to complete their degree requirements?
What are the names of the professors teaching Physics II for Engineering Students?
What are the days and times when Dr. Cove teaches Physics of Musical Sound (33114) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How are training episodes different from validation and test episodes?
What is A.3.4 in the provided text?
When did the 2023 Tartans Men's Soccer team play their last game?
What is the name of the course taught by Loh B?
Who is encouraged to self-identify with the Office of Disability Resources and request needed accommodations?
What are the names of all instructors listed?
What are the extended or longer-than-standard completion options available at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How was AGR used as a prognostic marker in the study?
Who is responsible for the information in this page according to the text?
 What learning rate is selected for all offline RL experiments?
What are the course codes for Paulisick Ammirati's classes?
What are the days and times when the 'Spacecraft Design-Build-Fly Laboratory' course is held?
What are the days and times for Communicating in the Global Marketplace?
 What is the interest towards spoken language translation witnessed by?
What are the names of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 8:00 AM to 10:50 AM?
What are the topics covered in the Generative AI and Large Language Model lecture?
What are the names of the two subjects being taught in Stagecraft Sound (2 units) G4?
What is the URL of the website where students can find information about printers provided by SCS Computer Facilities?
When and where does Major Instrumental Ensemble take place?
What was the purpose of online bulletin boards or 'bboards' in Carnegie Mellon University?
How long does the lecture last as per the schedule mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors for Biostatistics, Brain-Computer Interface: Principles and Applications, Biofabrication and Bioprinting, Medical Device Innovation and Realization, AI Applications in BME, Special Topics: Nanoscale Manufacturing Using Structural DNA Nanotechnology, Engineering Principles of Medical Devices, and Surgery for Engineers?
 What are some practical changes when using genetic improvement for Android apps compared to traditional desktop environments?
 What does Table 2 show in terms of correlation metrics?
 How is sparsification achieved in KALE?
What is the course name and location of Internship in Psychology (3-12)?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Freeman's classes?
What is the time distribution for academic year in MLT program?
What happens if a student is pursuing a master’s degree as part-time students for all semesters of their program?
What is the name of each scenic design session for 'A Little Night Music'?
What is the course name for 76245?
 What is the purpose of the ML-SUPERB benchmark?
What is the purpose of the Office for Institutional Equity and Title IX?
Where can students review the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
What are elective courses for HCDS?
What is Mechanical Systems Experimentation about? What are the days and times of this class?
How do The Plaidvocates function as a resource for their peers?
What are the two key offices for health, wellness and safety according to A.3?
Where is the lecture on Algorithm Design and Analysis held?
 Who was acknowledged in the text for their help and feedback?
What was the score for Carnegie Mellon in their game against Emory on Senior Day?
What are the names of the people who will be teaching Advanced Independent Study E TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
In which section can you find information about The WORD?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Language Enrichment and Independent Study 3-18?
What kind of professional development opportunities does the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offer?
What are the services provided in Dining section?
What kind of verification process do students have to go through before they can be employed according to this text?
What was the title of the book that Dr. Newell co-authored with Herbert A. Simon in 1972?
How does the faculty determine whether a student can finish their degree and what needs to be accomplished if they are having trouble?
When and where is Elementary Arabic II taught by Abraham F?
 What do toolkits like ESPnet, ESPRESSO, LINGVO, and RETURNN support?
In which room is Law, Performance, and Identity being held?
 What licensing information is provided for the datasets used in the experiments?
According to A.3, what are the two offices under Campus Wellness?
How can language technologies be based when there is insufficient time or data to build an NLP system?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in History?
What is the name of the course taught by Holcomb in PCA 231 at 11:00 AM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
What are the course names, instructors, and time slots for the courses offered at 07:00 PM on Thursday?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: External Projects: Production Management?
Who has to approve a change in final grades?
What is the name of Gerlach's class that teaches Brass Methods?
What is the title of the symphonies being performed in course 57925?
 How does the proposed USES model handle inputs with two variable dimensions, time and frequency?
What are the names of Zhang's classes in HH 1305?
Who was awarded as UAA Indoor Field Athlete of the Week twice?
 How many English retrieval collections did InPars-Light use in the study?
When and where will the Financial Regulation In the Digital Age workshop be held?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Applied Projects for Business and Economics?
Where should I go for a complete list of events and registration information for Cèilidh: Homecoming and Family Weekend?
 Which dialogue models are compared with IPA in the study?
What is the name of the course being taught by Shea at BH 154A?
 What was the purpose of training UNSSOR for monaural unsupervised separation?
 What is reflected by the observation that a small set of high-quality examples can elicit strong performance?
What is the policy for enrollment verification according to the text?
In what room and at what time does the Network Analysis class take place?
What are the days and times of Internship Mini's classes?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Research in Philosophy?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 3:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
How many courses are listed in total?
 What are some major events in Abu Dhabi?
Who teaches the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty' held in HBH 1204?
How many years later did Simon remain interested in chess computers?
What is the course name for Undergraduate Research (F 12:30PM - 01:50PM) in WEH 5409?
What is the significance of Reddy's ACM Turing Award in 1994?
 How is efficient exploitation typically achieved in GCHRL?
What should you do if English is not a native language for you but you will be studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa?
 What percentage of the training data does WavLabLM need to achieve comparable performance to XLS-R on ML-SUPERB?
What event will take place on Friday, October 10, 2014?
What is Dr. Edmund M. Clarke's research interest?
What are College Liaisons in the Division of Student Affairs responsible for?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Watchdog Journalism'?
What are the two key offices for academic and research support at CMU?
 What trend is observed in the improvement of output quality with more iterations in Constrained Generation?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study 1-36 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the two speakers and their respective topics in the sixth session?
 What post-processing method is supported for ST models in ESPnet-ST-v2?
Who can apply for the Dual Degree Ph.D. scholarships offered by the Carnegie Mellon Portugal Program?
What is the main message conveyed in this text?
Who is Shalizi 36995 Reading and Research 1-48 A?
What are the three internship opportunities mentioned in the text?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What is the course code for Systems & Toolchains for AI Engineers?
What are the timings of Jafry O'Connor's classes on Tuesday?
What is the name of the department(s) that Daniel Fried belongs to?
What is the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University's ranking according to a leading U.S. magazine?
How can one collaborate with the MCDS program?
What is the title of the course taught by Hershberger and Dobson?
What is the course name and location for M1 TR 01:00PM - 02:30PM?
What are the days, times, and location of the class that meets in TEP 2610 with Major 70455 Data Management Fundamentals?
How can students access information about parking availability, policies, and usage at CMU?
What are the courses included in Example Course of Study #1?
What is the title of the course being held at DH 1112 from 04:40PM to 06:30PM on Wednesday?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches at WB TBA DNM DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the instructors for Applied Information Assurance and Systems and Tool Chains for AI Engineers courses?
Who is the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Guitar?
What is the minimum QPA a student must maintain to remain in good standing with the MCDS program?
Who teaches Solfege I in this schedule?
What are the days and times for Machine Learning 10315?
What are the class levels offered in the text?
Who are the lighting production team for 'A Little Night Music'?
What does GSA offer to improve the graduate student experience at different levels of the university?
What are the days and times of each course?
What are the deliverables that a student taking units attached to an internship program should have commensurate with the number of units they are taking?
 What were the MOS values for the oracle methods and the baseline zero-shot method?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 10:00 AM?
What are the days and times for Lowy's classes in Anime - Visual Interplay between Japan and the World?
When and where is Larocca 57730 Art of Sonata Performance being held?
Where and when does the Additive Manufacturing Laboratory take place?
What are the days and times when Privacy Policy, Law, and Technology is offered?
Can an equivalent graduate course previously completed at Carnegie Mellon, or another institution, be permitted to satisfy one of the MCDS course requirements?
What is the duration of study for PhD students according to the academic policies?
 How is the cost of generation for the GPT-3 Curie model estimated in the text?
What are the two options for a student to graduate under according to the policies in effect at the time they entered the program?
What is the maximum duration of a short term absence from academic responsibilities that students can take under the Short-Term Accommodation for Gestational Parents?
What is the topic discussed in 'Appalachia: Development, Decline, and Identity in America' First Year Seminar?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Literature and Repertoire: Violin, Literature and Repertoire: Percussion, and Chamber Music Literature II?
Where can you find additional resources and information about these issues?
What is Symbolic Model Checking and who developed it?
 What was the reported relative accuracy for ImageNet-1k data pruning results with ResNet-50 compared to full training accuracy?
 What does the text reveal about the use of figurative language across languages?
What is the name of Kurnikova's Molecular Modeling and Computational Chemistry course?
What are the names of the three teachers teaching Basic Solfege I in this schedule?
What is Eric P. Xing's position at Language Technologies Institute?
What is the purpose of the event listed in Premo FB?
Where is the university located that these authors belong to?
What services does the University Libraries offer?
Who were the instructors for Directed Research A-DNM and B-DNM?
What are the course requirements for obtaining an LTI Ph.D. degree?
What is the role of Instructor TBA D?
Who are the instructors teaching in this schedule?
What is the course code for Introductory Course for CS Doctoral -Diversity & Inclusion in Science & Society?
 Why do wind turbines need to shut down at a wind speed of 25 m/s?
What are the names of all the instructors mentioned in the text?
What are the class names and their respective instructors for the classes held on Monday at MM 215 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the locations of each event?
What are the names of the instructors teaching BXA Seminar V: Capstone Project Production?
 Why is it mentioned that improvements found with unit tests in the Robolectric library translate to improvements on Android applications run on real devices?
What is the course code and title of the second EPP Projects course taught by Nock and Sioshansi?
What is the name of the instructor for SH 238, PH A18C and DH 2302 classes and their respective class timings?
What are the names of all instructors listed in this text?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor Jo?
Why was the committee sponsored by DARPA interested in 'speech understanding'?
Where is the location of ED?
What is the name of the instructor for Research Methods in Second Language Acquisition 9.0 A?
What is the name of the tournament that Men's Golf is participating in from Tuesday to Thursday?
 What was the major challenge for the shared task mentioned in the text?
On what days does BXA Studio (1st semester) take place in room TBA and has 9.0 credit hours?
Can I submit my application even if I haven't received all of my letters of recommendation?
 What optimizer is used for ASR pre-training and with what peak learning rate?
What happens if a student is having trouble in their studies?
When does Fang's Machine Learning in Production class take place?
 What correlations were measured in Section E.1?
What are the names and locations of Hayes' class?
What is the name of the instructor?
What are the days and times when course 15213 is offered?
What is the course code for Persuasive Design?
 In the context of SemanticSTF with light fog as the target, what method achieved an IoU of 57.4?
In what room is Data Analytics for Decision Making being held?
What is the course code of Entrepreneurship Project: VAR?
What is the final outcome of MLT thesis culminates in?
 What type of distribution were modeled for the chainlink counts and chainlink connectivities?
What is the total number of credit hours associated with all three internship opportunities mentioned?
What does 'Performance & security by Cloudflare' mean according to the given text?
 How can the trainable weights in a multi-head attention layer be factorized?
What are the class times for Modrekiladze J and K?
Who is Dan Siewiorek?
 How is the score s(ep, ec) calculated in the bi-encoder?
Where is the course 'Independent Study in Information Systems' located?
What happens if an application is incomplete?
What is the purpose of the Shuttle Service provided by Parking and Transportation?
What page can you find information about Graduate Student Funding in the LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the course name for Foundations: Digital Media (60120) and who teaches it?
What is the name of Raj's father?
Where are the classes for Stagecraft: Video & Media (3 units) held?
When and where does Managing People and Teams take place?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the schedule?
 How many key volatile substances were identified in dried fruits?
 What was the learning rate during the training process?
What are the names of all the courses listed in the text, excluding the unnamed instructors?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Friday and teaches Advanced Topics in Stage Management I?
Where do these courses take place?
Which studio specializes in Orchestral music and what are its initials?
 How does the aerosol concentration change with the accumulation of pollutants?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
When and where does Cornetti's Graduate Recital take place?
What are the values that Carnegie Mellon University emphasizes in its community?
What is the URL for MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the instructor's name for each class listed in this schedule?
What are the three classes that meet in the morning at the Wean Hall?
What are Athletic/Fitness Facilities used for according to the text?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
Who teaches the course titled 'Matrices and Linear Transformations' on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday from 9:00 AM to 9:50 AM in room MM A14?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Entrepreneurial Engineering Project and Functional Programming in Practice?
What is the course code for Marketing Management taught by Boatwright?
Who teaches Practical Computing for Biologists course in 03708 section?
What is required for students to take any courses not covered by their normal tuition (e.g., summer courses)?
 What does the text mention about the inference efficiency of speech and language models using GPU hardware accelerators?
What are the research interests of Lei Li?
What is the location of the Philosophy Core Seminar II class?
What is the course code of the Kangas's Automated Science Capstone I?
 What is the title of the paper by Wu and He published in the Proceedings of Interspeech?
What was the role of Dr. Simon at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Introduction to Costume Design?
What kind of athletic facilities does Carnegie Mellon offer?
Who teaches Department Research Honors 3-24?
Where are all these courses offered?
What is the name of Rissinger's class that teaches Russian Song Literature and Diction?
Who are the instructors for this course according to the text?
What are the course codes for Introduction to Deep Learning?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What is the course 10-605 about?
 What is the formula for computing the F1 score in BERTScore?
 What language model is used in the InPars-light modification?
 What is the proposed training method to mitigate the issue of deciding the prediction order of dialog attributes?
What are the days, times, and locations for course 15642 Machine Learning Systems?
Who won the Men's Tennis match between Duquesne and Carnegie Mellon according to the first text?
When and where does Interdisciplinary Undergraduate Research take place?
What are the days and times for Cardiovascular Mechanics?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What are the accommodations available for students engaged in research during their anticipated birth?
 What type of programming problems did the authors observe in every model evaluated?
Do MLT courses assume prior knowledge of programming and data structures?
What are the areas of concentration that MIS-21 students can choose from for their breadth requirements?
What are the course codes for classes taught by Acquisti and Tucker?
What are the names of Lugo-Martinez's classes?
Where is the Artificial Intelligence Practicum located?
 What are the chemical substances with the greatest contribution in the branch exudate group?
What is the course code for Foundations of Drama II?
Who are the instructors for Machine Learning 10301 and Machine Learning 10315?
When does the class 'Placone Corporate Communications Simulation' start and end?
According to the text, what is the purpose of the 'Partnership' section on this page?
What is the name of the course taught by Fields-Black D?
What is the topic of the lecture by Stravers in GHC 4102?
What is the mission of the Carnegie Mellon Portugal Program?
What is the purpose of this section for graduate students?
 What is the average perplexity of the 1K token regions across all chunks for the 2K token window size for StarCoderBase?
Where is the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook located according to the handbook?
What is the difference between the two options regarding the total cost of tuition?
What is the name of the course taught by Rulke at 2611 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is teaching the course 'Introduction to Printed Circuit Boards Fabrication'?
 How is the sparsity control implemented in training the sparse model?
What are the names of the professors teaching at 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room DH A302?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed in the text?
What is the course title for the lecture held on Thursday at 10:00AM-11:50AM?
 What is the main focus of the proposed method described in the text?
What are the days, timings of Novosat's classes?
What is the URL of the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
What is the course name and instructor for 36614?
 What is the purpose of comparing GI with state-of-the-art techniques for Android performance improvement via code modification?
What does the Language Technologies Institute offer for staff professional development?
 How are NLG models generally realized according to the text?
Where is Peduto FF located?
What is the name of the course held by Dwivedi in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the people listed after 'Willard' and their respective titles or positions?
What was Newell's interest in human-computer interaction that led him to work with Xerox’s Palo Alto Research Center (PARC)?
What are Spangler and Bowser teaching in their class?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
Who wrote the paper 'Analytic models as aids in multiprocessor design'?
How can one get in touch with the university's media contacts for news and events purposes?
What is the role of OIE in addressing immigration issues for non-immigrant students?
What is the course code for Electronic Music Seminar?
 What is the primary contribution of the work described in the text?
Who is the instructor for Database Design and Development course in Doha, Qatar?
 Which research group published the article on sensory feedback in upper-limb prostheses?
Who should contact for discussing any options or pitching new ideas mentioned in the text?
What is the date of the next event according to the text?
What is the William D. Ford Direct Loan Program?
What is the course code of Project in AI for Healthcare?
Where and when does the 'Tomorrow’s Professionals' class take place?
What is the name of the course taught by Newman?
 What are the requirements for fine-tuning LM models according to Micheli & Fleuret (2021)?
What is the course code for Fables, Legends and Stories from Ancient Chinese Civilization?
 What kind of tools are mentioned to be enriched in the environment?
 What are the evaluating classes used in both domain generalization benchmarks?
What is the name of the building where Pessoa teaches?
 What is the significance of multi-objective optimization in the context of Android app development?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
 What was the main focus of the study mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the degree that can be earned by completing this program?
What is the course name for Fedder's class that meets from 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM on Tuesday and Thursday in room B103?
 How does ESPnet-ST-v2 benchmark its performance?
Who teaches Differential Equations 9.0 Lec 3 at DH 1212 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the school for Elective Studio (Double Bass), Elective Studio (Guitar), Elective Studio (Flute), and Elective Studio (Oboe)?
What is the requirement for completing a PhD dissertation at LTI?
 What is the focus of the Ethics Statement mentioned in the text?
Where does The Pricing of Products & Services take place?
When is the course being taught by Vatanasakdakul in Doha, Qatar held?
What is the purpose of the changes made in CTAT 4.3.0?
 What were measured using an Aerodyne Time- of-Flight Aerosol Chemical Speciation Monitor during wintertime in Beijing?
What was one of the goals of the Mach project according to Black?
What is the recommendation for students in three-semester program who fail one of their first-semester MCDS core required courses?
What is the current winning streak for Tartan Football team?
What is the name of the course that teaches External Relations: Arts Marketing and PR?
What is the course code for Operations Research II and who teaches it?
 What degrees are associated with B.A according to the context sentences?
 Which conference is mentioned in the text where the exploration on HuBERT with multiple resolutions was presented?
 What additional insight does the denoise back-translation method bring to unsupervised speech-to-speech translation?
What is the course code for Aural Analysis and Basic Improvisation?
What are the course codes for Laird's classes?
 Why is GI considered fully automated in the context of software optimization?
What are the names of the teachers and their class schedules?
What is the instructor's schedule for W class?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
What are the names of the courses taught by Lizama?
What is the requirement for Directed Study under MIIS-21 program?
What is the course name and instructor's name for Econometrics for Policy?
Where does Course 17699 take place?
What is the time and location of the Applied Business AI course?
 How do nested tensor operations leverage sparsity in padded variable sequence lengths to reduce latency?
How does knowing the date and semester help readers understand the content of the text?
What are the three areas for choosing a concentration?
What are the course codes for Market Engineering and Applications and Usable Privacy and Security?
 What are the drawbacks of storing dense representations in memory?
Are there any formal residence requirements in this program?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed?
Where can students find full text of Carnegie Mellon University's policies?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep: External Projects?
What are the names of the two new products being introduced in the text?
What is the name of the sixth and final meet on the schedule?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
What is an interesting fact about Dr. Shafi's household?
Where are the ENGAGE in Service and ENGAGE in the Arts courses located?
How many letters of recommendation are required in the application process?
 What is the purpose of the loss weighting method in improving translation?
What are the names of the two laboratories that Vuocolo is teaching?
 What is the role of the HMGA2 gene in the 12q14 microdeletion syndrome?
 What are the key components compared in the effectiveness analysis of GILLMapper against other models?
 What issue did LMs trained on the knowledge-grounded dialog task face according to the text?
What is the name of the event that took place on Thu, Apr/13 at 2:30 p.m.?
What type of information can be found on the ID cards for spouses, domestic partners, and dependent children?
What are the names of the courses offered in Modern Languages and Elementary French I?
On which page can the student find more detailed information about the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the name of the institution that offers this program?
What is the course title of Lightman's Independent Study?
What are the names of the individuals who supervised Sylvania Mitchell's Materials Project I and II?
What are the days and times when 'Movement III' is offered?
What is CMU's career and professional development model based on?
What is the course code of Physics II for Engineering and Physics Students?
What services does the Veterans and Military Community provide for graduate students?
What are the names of the courses being offered in The Future of Real Estate and Debt Markets?
When can an instructor award a grade of 'I' (incomplete) for a course?
 What is the main contribution of the CUTTLEFISH technique according to the paper?
Who are the instructors for the Improvisational Acting course?
Where is the first class held?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor at MTWRF 06:30PM 10:30PM TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where can students find additional information about university resources and The Word?
What are the locations for Production Prep: External Projects and Acting IV-Improv 3.0?
Who is teaching the Observation class?
What is the course taught by Risch at Endeavor I Business Leadership?
How many students are there at CMU according to the website mentioned in the text?
 What type of data was used to train the TTS systems in the discussed research work?
Where is Page 45 of the Safe LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook located?
What is Taylor's class on Tuesday from 07:00PM to 08:50PM?
 What is the toxicity score threshold used to classify a response as toxic in the toxic generation evaluation?
What is the purpose of the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
What are the names of the offices mentioned in section A.1?
What is the maximum number of courses for which a student can receive transfer credit?
What is the subject taught by Gatti Dura XX?
 What is the purpose of an RNN-T model?
What is the course code for 'Commercialization and Innovation: Workshop'?
What is the goal of the author's recent work on selective and federated search?
What sport did Case Western Reserve University's women's tennis team play against Chicago State on February 25?
What is the format of an LTI PhD student's oral presentation?
What is LiveQA evaluation track at TREC 2015?
 Which metric showed the best overall results in embedder learning in the experiments conducted in the text?
What was the problem with Berliner's strategy in his initial backgammon program?
What are the course codes for the courses taught by Bergbreiter?
On what day and time does Virtue F's class start at WEH 4623 according to the schedule?
What are the names of the lecturers for course 5.0 A W 07:00PM in GHC 4307?
What is the phone number of Language Technologies Institute?
When and where is MHCI Project 1 held?
What should a student do if they believe a new course should be added to an LTI Focus Area?
What are the course codes for Intermediate German I and II?
What is the location of The HUB at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is discussed under section 4.5.7?
In what room does Moore's class take place in?
What is the 'Statute of Limitations' policy?
What is the full name of McGhee K?
What is the page number where you can find information about degrees offered in this program?
 How does the approach in the text leverage partial annotation?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Major Studio (Double Bass)?
 What were the most pressing issues in the environmental impact of NLP experiments according to participants?
What is the course code and title of the Directed Reading offered by Instructor Bjorndahl?
What is the course code for 'Remediation Engineering'?
What are the days of the week and times for Compiler Design course offered by Instructor TBA C?
What is the opinion of Murray Campbell about Hans Berliner's work?
How are grades counted for degree requirements in SCS?
When and where is the 'Dynamic Network Analysis' lecture held?
What were some basics about mergers and acquisitions that Mauldin discussed during his presentation?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses listed in this schedule?
 Where can the OTDD implementation of the original paper be found?
What are the locations for Learning through Cultural Practices and Community B?
What does the acronym 'CFA' stand for in this context?
What is the course code and instructor for Real-Time Graphics offered by McCann?
 What backbone model is used in the experiments for domain generalization?
 Which group had a higher preference towards reviewers rewarding papers that promise to release models over visual branding?
What is the phone number of Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the person who teaches Directed Reading 1-36?
 What is the correlation coefficient between GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product in the TAK region?
What does 'Headshot View' refer to in this context?
What is the name of the course 'Analog Integrated Circuit Design: 12.0 Analog Integrated Circuits I'?
What is the course code and title of Production Science?
When is Undergraduate Research in Philosophy held?
 What does the text mention about the impact of using higher-performing hardware on end-to-end performance?
When was the season for Women's Cross Country in 2023?
Who are the instructors for Lowry's CEE Research Project 3-12 class?
What is the name of the project mentioned in the first line?
When does the 'Elective Studio (Voice)' take place?
Do you need to log in with your CMU ID card to use a photocopier or printer?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
What is the name of the instructor for the Production Prep course in Scenic Design?
What is Alexander Hauptmann's research interests?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching the course titled 'Intro to Open-Source FPGA & ASIC Chip Design'?
Who are the instructors of this text?
Who leads the Business Leadership Endeavor I at 12:30 PM on Tuesday?
Who was honored at the annual celebration for top academic athletes?
What is the purpose of A.3.3 Campus Wellness section?
 What is the title of the research paper published in Proc. SPIE in 2004?
Which instructor teaches 'Foundations of Political Economy'?
What is the purpose of the 'Connect' page on Language Technologies Institute's website?
What position does Johnny Bennett play?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about visualizing?
Who are the instructors for each class?
What are the days and times of the classes offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the head coach of the 2023 Tartans Women's Soccer team?
Where do these classes take place?
What are the courses taught by Baird at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays?
What is the time frame for each course in the schedule?
What are the names of the three instructors mentioned in this text?
 What is the performance of the proposed method on assigning rankings to true parents for events within hierarchies?
What are the names of the instructors who teach on Tuesday and Thursday at 06:30PM-08:50PM in DH 1302 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the speakers for the course 'C W'?
What is the name of the class that starts at 02:00PM in this text?
What are the days and times when Intrusion Detection Systems is offered?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in CMB 1031 at Doha, Qatar?
What are the days and times when Programming Language Pragmatics is offered?
When does Reading and Research take place?
 What improved the correlation between κchem and κccn?
How can someone print the information about this event?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Electronic and Experimental Music?
 What are the three alternate structures mentioned for the updater to aggregate semantic context?
What services do the libraries at Carnegie Mellon offer?
What is the course name for the class offered on Monday at 9:00 AM in PCA 308?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
 How is the safety of dialogue responses evaluated in the study?
What are the days and times when Dr. Sinha teaches Physics II for Engineering and Physics Students (33142) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the instructor of the Lighting Design class?
What is the pass/fail grade option at MIIS?
What time does the Production Prep for Scenic Design start?
What are the class names and meeting times for Krackhardt?
 What observation is made regarding token emissions in Figures 7 and 8?
 What is the significance of the proposed framework mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Machine Learning 10301 and Machine Learning 10601?
What are the course codes and their respective locations for Schafer R2, Yurko Machine Learning I R2, Wiesel 46944 Stochastic Calculus for Finance I:, Larsson, Andersen 46954 Risk Management:, Hrusa 46956 Fixed Income:, Kuehn 46972 MSCF Investments:, and Pretnar 46976 Macroeconomics for Computational Finance?
What kind of initiatives does the university provide for students' wellness?
 Why is a weighted sum of representations extracted over different Transformer layers used for downstream tasks?
What does the university aim to do for society?
What is the name of the course taught by Warren on Monday from 02:00PM to 04:50PM in PCA 305?
How can one contact Louis-Philippe Morency?
What is the location of Performance 3-9 A?
What is the name of the course that starts at 04:00 PM on Thursday in room TEP 2110?
What kind of research activities are the Capstone projects in Computational Data Science structured as?
How many staff members are there at UHS?
What are the names of the classes being taught by the instructor who teaches WR 5:00 PM - 6:20 PM?
 What is the potential benefit highlighted in the results of using OCR tools for endangered languages?
Which option is not a way to share content?
How does Berliner describe Watson's ability to answer 'Jeopardy!' questions?
What are the requirements for registering for exams in this program?
What resources does the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University provide?
What is the name of the instructor for 'Cognitive Perspectives in HCI' course?
When was the announcement about Tartans being named to Tennis and Softball Academic All-District Teams made?
What is the criteria for purchasing new appliances by Athletics?
What position does Chris Marzo play?
What are the days, times, and locations of Novosat's classes?
What are some of the resources available at Mailboxes & Office Supplies according to the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in CFA 200 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the rare situation where a department may approximate a policy as closely as possible?
 In the interleaved image-and-text inputs, what model resulted in the best Recall@1 score?
Where does Keshav teach Tepper College Honors Thesis I and II?
 What is the success rate achieved by the baselines in the real world in the text?
What is the hometown/high school of Yonah Goldberg?
What is Dr. Lori Levin's title and field of expertise?
 Name an alternative transformation method investigated besides LC compression and CUTTLEFISH.
Who is the author of Practicum in Computer Science?
Who are the authors who instructed Gongora-Svartzman H?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Acting I and Speech I at PCA 318 and A41 respectively?
Does the LTI Ph.D. fellowship include a dependency allowance for students with children?
What does 'Advanced Music Studies Studio' mean in the context of this text?
What are the course codes for Materials Science & Engineering 27050 Study Abroad and Graduate Reading and Research?
In which course are students learning about Vocal Methods?
How do College Liaisons address student concerns across different departments and colleges?
 Why might less data be required for translating idioms when the context is informative?
When is the lecture of Current Research in Chemistry: 1.0 held at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What are the two tracks included in the ML-SUPERB benchmark?
Who was honored by UAA and D3hoops.com?
Do you need to mail hard versions of your official transcripts at the time of application?
What day of the week is the class mentioned in the text held on?
 What effect did the intermittent fog event have on the aerosol number concentration and mass concentration?
What is the title of Mai's lecture?
Where is the CMU Soccer Field located in relation to Gesling Stadium?
What is the name of the course offered in Animation Seminar: Portfolio and Project Development?
In what room is Acting as Artist B4 class held?
What are the three independent study courses offered by Mercier?
What are the days and times of Ravi's Service Operations Management class?
How are courses taken through cross-registration program recorded in the transcript?
 What was used to perform the English-to-Chinese translation of the HCChinese data?
 What probability was calculated to have a level-2 voice chain by chance?
What are the course codes for Music of the Spirit and Beginning Piano Practicum I?
How does the university respond to reports of sexual harassment?
What is the name of the person who will be teaching the Practicum in Mechanical Engineering?
Where is Hardman's class located?
What are the days and times when the 'Production Prep: External Projects: VAR Directing' class is held?
What are the dates when Despacho n.º 4372/2012 was issued?
What is the title of DeSantis' second class?
Who is the instructor for Piano BC at the studio?
What is the subject taught by Pessoa YY?
What is the significance of 'about questions' in this context?
 What is a common issue mentioned regarding warnings from Android linters?
What accommodations are available for students who anticipate giving birth during a semester?
What is the topic discussed in section 5.1.10 of this text?
When did the second game take place?
When and where is the lecture on Foundations of Software Management A held?
 What is the traditional solution to modeling vocal fold oscillations?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
 What is one of the challenges mentioned in working with articulatory data?
How can a student connect with the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the topics covered in the 'Introduction to Freestyle Rap' course?
What are the course codes for Production: Crew and Production: Performance?
When and where are the courses being offered at HBH 1204 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the contact details of Joan Axelson, one of the people responsible for administering the LTI Ph.D. degree?
Who teaches Model Minorities? Race, Rhetoric, & Identity in Asian America?
 What is a surprising finding mentioned in the text about the TPMS algorithm?
When and where does Mechanical Engineering Project 3-12,18 take place?
 What dataset were two techniques evaluated on, and how does it compare to the dataset used in the experiments discussed?
What is the main topic of discussion in the text?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
What time does the Softball match against King's (Pa.) start on Sunday, March 17?
What are the names of the courses being offered at PCA 211 and what are their respective durations?
What are the names of the productions that start at 11:00AM and end at 03:00PM?
Who left CMU to start a new Computer Science Department at Columbia in 1979?
What is the name of the class that starts at TBA on Monday, Wednesday in room HH B131?
What is the successor to M.S. in Biotechnology, Innovation and Computing (MSBIC)?
What services does the Information Desk at the University Center provide?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the days and times of Topics in Entrepreneurship class?
What is the name of the course being offered by Dr. MacWhinney?
 What does Scone use to perform efficient inference and handle inheritance?
What is the name of the studio where Whipple teaches at in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the outcomes predicted by conversational constructs according to the text?
 How many intermediate-representation baselines were compared to the proposed model?
What are the class names for Rulke?
What is the name of the tournament that Carnegie Mellon's Women's Golf team will be attending on Monday, March 11?
How many pages does The WORD have?
What does A.3.1 and A.3.2 refer to according to the given text?
 What are the weights set for the integrity constraints?
What are the class timings for Additive Manufacturing Laboratory?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses listed in the text?
 How many tracks does the AV-SUPERB benchmark comprise of and what are they designed for?
What instrument does Laduke play in the Advanced Music Studies Studio in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does 'Music History for Graduate Students II' take place?
What are the days, times, and instructors of Physics 33051 Study Abroad?
What is the name of the shuttle service mentioned in this text?
 How does the prediction network in an RNN-T model generate output labels?
How many weeks of vacation does a student take during winter break?
What is expected from MIIS students regarding completing assignments for the LTI Orientation Canvas course?
 How does preference-based evaluation differ from metric-based evaluation?
Where is their next match after Spring Break?
 What is the main curative treatment for HCC mentioned in the text?
Where does GSA host the Graduate Student Lounge?
What is the requirement to use The University Center's recreational facilities?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Finance II A1 TR 10:00AM - 11:45AM and Finance II A2 TR 02:00PM - 03:45PM?
What are the names of the instructors who teach Independent Study in Solfege 3-9 A, Independent Study in Eurhythmics 3-9 A, and Independent Study in Sound Recording Production VAR A?
What was Workhorse used for during the TMI sweep up?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Tuesdays?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching Physics First Year Seminar?
What is the name of the seminar series that takes place on Friday afternoons?
What is the topic of the lecture by Chin in GHC 4102?
 Explain the concept of pivoting in machine translation.
What are the names of the courses taught by Eshelman and Thomson?
What are the days and times for Policy Topics I: Federal Budget Policy?
 How is the problem of selecting a pretrained model framed?
What is the role of Carnegie Mellon's University Libraries in providing resources for students?
 What is the topic of the paper by Ruizhe Cheng et al. mentioned in the text?
When does Kesden teach Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering?
What are the course codes for Special Topics in HCI and Undergraduate Project in HCI?
How many courses start at MTWRF 06:30PM - 10:30PM in the passage?
Who is teaching the Costume Forum class?
What is the 'Grandfather' policy in LTI academic policies?
 What is the objective of phonetic word embeddings?
 What approach was followed for HotpotQA experiments?
 What types of PII were excluded from the model training?
What are the course codes for Internship, MSE Capstone Course II, and Supervised Reading?
What does Scotty's character contribute to the overall storyline?
What are the three sections of Ethics and Leadership course offered by Kim in this schedule?
Who are the main categories of people that can be found at this institute according to the menu options provided?
What is the name of the course for Outdoor Soccer B1 taught by Moraga?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
What purpose does The WORD serve in the university community?
What was the date of the match where the #10 Tartans defeated #17 Case Western Reserve?
When is 'Acting I' class held?
What is the focus of 'Our Bill of Rights' at LTI?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed in the text?
What is the policy regarding medical assistance at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Farag's lecture?
What happens if a student's cumulative QPA drops below 2.6 during any given semester?
 What evaluation framework provides low-latency simultaneous speech translation with a decoupled client-server architecture?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
Who are the instructors listed in this text?
What are the only format requirements for the title page of a dissertation?
Where can graduate students find the Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures?
Where is the study abroad program located?
What are the course codes for 'Principles of Computing' and its sections?
What is the Two-Strike-Rule in MCDS?
What does section 6.2 of the text refer to?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Conducting?
Which groups were funded to carry out research for this DARPA committee at CMU?
What are the names of the people teaching for the scenic design class?
What is the course title of the eighth class listed in the schedule?
What are the institution codes for TOEFL Report Codes?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 07:00PM on Tuesday?
What is the role of The Word in providing policies for graduate students?
What does Carnegie Mellon extend to certain benefits for?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Energy Innovation and Entrepreneurship'?
Who is the instructor for SOM 2: VAR Directing A?
What is the responsibility of society towards Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the courses listed for 'Friday, 09:30AM - 10:50AM' and taught by Cousin?
 How is the rotation axis aligned with respect to the detector in tomography experiments using the walnut sample?
What are the days and times when Physical Education 69101 takes place?
Where and when will Anklesaria present their talk?
What is the name of the person who teaches the lecture titled 'Democracy and History: Thinking Beyond the Self' on Monday and Wednesday from 12:00 PM to 12:50 PM?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Blackwood's Introduction to Lighting Management?
Who teaches Developing Blockchain Use Case (course code 73258)?
How many offices are listed under 'Key Offices for Academic & Research Support?', and what are they?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral): Advanced Music Entrepreneurship?
What are the policies regarding transfer credit in MCDS?
What is Long-Term Accommodation in the context of this text?
What department is associated with University 5000 according to the given text?
When does the class 'Literature & Repertoire: Flute' take place?
Where can graduate students find enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration and Parental Accommodations?
What is the course code for MSCF Business Communication II C?
What is the website link to access the online version of the annual security and fire safety report?
 How did previous methods attempt to use phonetic information in enhancing perceptual quality?
What is the time difference between the first and second events listed for each day?
Where and when is Shaping Environments: Experiments in Geometry and (Waste)Matter held?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
What are the names of the authors who wrote 'Economics 73050 Study Abroad'?
 Who introduced ChatGPT on November 30, 2022?
When and where are the classes for Exploring Pittsburgh in Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
What are the names of the speakers at the Theatre for the Ear?
When and where does the 'Experiential Learning III: Experiential Learning III' class meet?
What is the title of Steier's course and when does it meet?
Name two courses that are taught in the evening and have 'StuCo' as part of their name.
What is the course number for 'Translation Workshop I'?
 What does the joint model successfully capture to improve the prediction performance of all SLU tasks significantly?
What services does the University Libraries offer?
When and where is Blockchain Fundamentals class held?
What is the location of Communication Skills and Professional Development for Scientists 6.0 A2?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
What are the course codes and titles for Mercier's courses in Foundations of Software Management?
What is the name of the course that starts at WR 05:00PM - 06:20PM and ends with 'Directing'?
What is the purpose of the recommendation that a MLD (10-XXX) graduate course can count as an 'LTI course'?
 What is observed about the performance of ICE with respect to UniEval?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in Brecker Hall?
 According to the text, how can a differential spectrum be obtained?
What are the names of the courses being offered at this event?
What are the names of the two paints being taught in Paints (2 units) B4?
 In the context of the text, when is the procedure of consistency checking carried out using a much faster model like MiniLM-L6-30M considered?
What is the course name and credit hours of the 08:00AM - 09:50AM class?
 How are GI patches constructed in the context of software improvement?
Who are the instructors for D and F in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the University Center?
What are the class timings for Sound Design K?
 What is the goal of the scientific literature review writing task?
Will PhD students receive financial support from CMU?
Where is the Practice Teaching (Secondary) class held?
In which room is Design and Documentation in Revit VAR being taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does the reformulated index store hidden states efficiently?
What is mentioned in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook regarding Carnegie Mellon's approach to student well-being?
What are the days and times for Lectures R1-R5 of Principles of Computing?
What is the time and location of Reinhart's Machine Learning II class held on M3 day?
What are the names of the two laboratories that Kowalewski is teaching?
What happens if a student wants to transfer into the MIIS program during their first semester at CMU?
Who is the instructor for Emerging Markets course?
Who is Rick and what did he do?
What are the names of the courses listed in reverse alphabetical order?
What is the topic of each class listed in this text?
 What does the text suggest is a more reliable way to compare metrics?
What are the course credits for Graduate Teaching II?
What is the course title of Course 17692 and its meeting time?
What are the days and times of Parno 33234 Quantum Physics class?
When was the Carnegie Mellon Department of Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation launched the Tartan Athletics Club?
Where can students find instructions on how to order transcripts at Carnegie Mellon University?
 Which languages benefited more greatly from augmentation with additional examples?
 What alternative way is suggested to handle dynamic partition, device upgrade, and memory constraints in federated learning?
What is the name of the person who will be teaching Media Design?
What is the name and schedule of the instructor teaching 'EX-CHANGE: Exhibition & Publication in Practice'?
Who should a student contact if they have further questions about the SCS25 Kickoff Celebration Registration?
Which office provides assistance for individuals with disabilities at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Special Topics: Maker Series: Intro to Laser Cutting & Engraving take place?
 What is the difference in BLEU performance between re-translation and incremental SST according to Table 1?
What are some examples of resources mentioned in the text?
How can a student access their personal information through the university's system?
What is the name of the instructor for Calculus in Three Dimensions 10.0 Lec 2 and their class timing?
 Why is data augmentation considered a major challenge for the shared task?
What are the days and times when Introduction to Parallel Computing and Scientific Computation is held?
When and where does Drama 54011 take place?
What degree did the person earn from Guindy College of Engineering?
When must students complete their remaining work if they fail to do so by the end of an academic semester?
Which department at CMU is focused on transportation research?
Is 11-785 a prerequisite for the Capstone Project?
What does it mean for a course work to be completed?
What are the class timings for the 'Scenic Fabrication and Installation' course?
What are the names of the instructors for Introduction to Deep Learning?
What is the title of the second course listed under 'Data Science for Technology, Innovation and Policy'?
When does Carvalho's Intelligent Environments B class take place?
At what time does Moseley B's class start and end at 3801 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the days listed in the text?
 What does the virtual copy semantics in Scone involve?
What are the days and times of Laird's Advanced Transport Phenomena class?
What is the name of Haggerty's class?
Where is the Carnegie Scenic class held?
What are the two options available for connecting to the Language Technologies Institute?
What should be done after selecting one's program from the list provided by SCS Graduate Application?
What is the name of the department mentioned in the text that provides support for students' religious and spiritual needs?
What are the time slots for Costume Design class of Macbeth's External Projects?
What are the two options for pursuing a degree in Intelligent Information Systems?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses taught by Dr. Doonan in the Fall 2023 semester?
What are students supported by research projects expected to do during winter and summer breaks?
What are the course codes for Advanced Interaction Design?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes listed in this text?
What are the names of all classes offered by Mackey B?
What is the mission of the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
What instrument does Carlisle play in the Advanced Music Studies Studio in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Why did the authors of the text train bilingual models instead of relying solely on Arabic pretraining data?
What are the class times and location of 'Teaching Practicum: Dramatic Writing B'?
Who can qualify for a fee waiver in cases of financial hardship or participation in select 'pipeline' programs?
What are the course codes of all courses listed in this text?
What is the title of the course held at 09:30AM - 10:50AM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
 What could future research avenues delve into according to the paper?
What are the days and times that the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Media Design' is held?
What are the dates and times of Cervesato's classes?
What is LTI's focus according to the text?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA on Thursdays from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What school did Theodore Gershon attend before joining Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can students review the university’s policy on privacy rights?
What are the courses taught by Arscott at 1:00 PM on Tuesdays?
Where are the instructors for Elective Studio (Oboe) located?
 What does the acronym PRO stand for in the context of the text?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What happens during LTI Orientation Faculty Research Talks?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep for Want to be a Mother?
What are the days and times of Smith's classes in this schedule?
 What kind of process occurred from 12:00 to 18:00 on 10 February involving dust-raising and non-spherical particles?
When does the event at 57940 take place?
What are the names of the instructors for Personal Fitness B3?
What position does Kayla Delmore play on the Tartans?
 How do semantic and extrinsic metrics for phonetic word embeddings generally correlate with each other?
What are the course codes for Research Methods in Developmental Psychology and Social Psychology?
How many students are listed in this text for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Voice AB?
What does the MCDS program strive to produce graduates with?
What is the URL of the Academic Integrity Policy at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes for Dietrich College Senior Honors Thesis I and II?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching the course titled 'Great Ideas in the Arts'?
 What is the main benchmark used to compare different model configurations in the text?
 How long can a full evaluation cycle of ML-SUPERB take using 4 2080Ti GPUs?
What happens if a student takes an undergraduate course for credit?
What is Avani Seshiah's position and class level?
How tall is Jake Kavan?
What is the significance of the repeated letters in each author's name?
 What is the Lottery Ticket Hypothesis (LTH) according to the paper?
 How many unique entity surface forms are in the OPIEC59k dataset?
What is the purpose of Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-registration according to section 7.5?
What are the names and course codes of all courses taught by Ryan A?
In what room is Literature & Culture in the 19th Century being taught?
How can students get involved in undergraduate research and honors thesis at the university's School of Computer Science?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
What is the name of the organization where MacWhinney conducted their research?
What is the course code for Bockstaller Chemistry Elective 1-12?
What are the names of all courses listed?
What is the role of the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion in fostering an inclusive campus climate?
What was the name of the chess-playing computer developed by Hsu and Anantharaman?
What is the phone number of David Mortensen?
 What type of data do students work with in the StoryQ module?
What is the topic of the Usable Privacy and Security course?
How many additional resources does the university offer for students according to section 6 of the text?
 What are some references to related works cited in the text?
 In what type of scenarios is low-latency speech translation particularly important?
What is the academic program of Shikhar Agnihotri?
 What instructions were given to the crowdworkers in terms of prioritizing responses?
What is the course name and instructor for Mathematical Methods of Physics?
 What evaluation strategy is used after data processing?
What are the days, times, and locations of Geographic Information Systems, Consulting Lab, Management Consulting, Healthcare Information Systems, Project Management, Measuring Social Impact, Applied Econometrics for DAS, Introduction to Maya, Acting for Leadership and Communication, QSSS Proseminar 2, Humanities Scholars Senior Research Seminar, Study Abroad, Geographic Information Systems, Consulting Lab, Management Consulting, Healthcare Information Systems, Project Management, Measuring Social Impact, Applied Econometrics for DAS, and Acting for Leadership and Communication?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Financial Aid Guide?
How can students report suspected unethical activity or violations of university policy anonymously?
What is the location of the course 'Special Topics: Generative AI and Large Language Model (A3)', and what are its timings?
What is the name of the person who wrote Practicum in Computer Science?
What does 'HUB' stand for in Carnegie Mellon University context?
What is the significance of 'way out in front' according to SIEWIOREK?
 How is the framework proposed in the text designed to capture high-level consensus over linguistic information?
What is the name of the instructor for the course in Stage Management D?
 What percentage of improving patches did the caching operators introduced turn out to be highly effective in?
 How does CodeBERTScore differ from BERTScore in evaluating code generation?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Novosat?
Who is teaching the 'Structure and Design of Digital Systems' course in room DH 2210?
What are the days and times for Al Masaeed F 10:00AM 10:50AM POS 235 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Which award did Edmund M. Clarke receive for his contributions to formal verification of hardware and software correctness in 2014?
What are the names of the people teaching these StuCo courses?
What is the name of the building where both courses are held?
What is the course code for Taylor's class?
Who are the sound designers for 'A Little Night Music'?
What is the URL of the University Policies Website mentioned in section 1.3?
What is the purpose of the Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) department?
Where does The Roots of Brexit: Identity, Politics, and Culture in Contemporary Britain take place?
What is the course name for Human Information Processing and Artificial Intelligence: 9.0?
Where is the Mathematics Colloquium located?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
 What percentage improvement in accuracy in human evaluations did the proposed method achieve in comparison to past methods for discriminative captioning?
What is the phone number of Language Technologies Institute?
When is the Audience Engagement and User-Experience Design course held?
What is the course title of the study abroad program offered by Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the responsibility of MIIS students regarding address changes?
Which course, 602 IDeATe or User-Centered Research and Evaluation, is offered at a different time on Monday?
 What is one approach for dealing with label noise in the context of MIL?
What is the purpose of research and/or project work in satisfying the Programming requirement?
What are the goals of the SMART program?
 What is the main difference between BERTScore and traditional metrics in evaluating text generation?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at CMU REMOTE Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Piano BB and Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Harp D?
 What is the significance of the corpus of knowledge bases in the environment?
What is the purpose of SIO for students?
What is the academic program of Aishwarya Agrawal?
What is the name of the class that meets on Monday evenings at 7:00 PM at DH 5222?
What is the purpose of section 6.2.1?
What does 04:00 PM and 05:20 PM represent according to the text?
What is the course title of the Information Systems Program study abroad program?
What is the name of the course offered by Creswell that involves cognitive psychology?
What is the purpose of the URL provided for due to changing conditions surrounding public health and safety requirements?
What is the sport that Carnegie Mellon University plays on Fri, Mar/08 at NCAA Championships?
Who co-supervises each student's progress and helps define their final thesis topic?
What kind of violence can be reported through the reporting system?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Interpretation and Argument (76101)?
What is the duration of Independent Study 95913 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is teaching the 'Lighting Production' class for Lonely Planet that starts at 6:30 PM on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is the website link to access more information about parking at CMU?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule that start with the letter 'C'?
Where are Barr's classes held in Pittsburgh, PA?
 Who are the authors of the paper Neural audio synthesis of musical notes with wavenet autoencoders?
What are the days and times of Graduate Reading and Research?
 What is the difference between the sum of the first 5 numbers and the sum of the last 5 numbers in the sequence: 48.2, 29.7, 58.8, 33.7, 64.8, 65.0, 57.3, 57.4, 24.3, 47.2?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
How can students sign up for E-Check & E-Refund on SIO?
What are the class times for Independent Study?
What is the date of the UAA Championships in Chicago?
Why does MCDS discourage the use of 'TOEFL ITP Plus for China'?
What is the name of the location where Flute I class takes place?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Chip Design?
How can students interested in an ML-Joint Ph.D. apply for it?
 What challenge does traditional neural architecture search (NAS) methods face according to the paper?
 What was the best-evolved mutation in the Lightning Browser application?
What did the CMU team achieve in BioASQ 2016 Biomedical Semantic Question Answering challenge?
 How many classes are included in the ImageNette/ImageWoof dataset?
 How much is the global renewable energy capacity expected to increase by in the next five years?
What are the names of the courses that start with each letter from I to K in the given text?
What are the dates and times for the course 'Evidence-Based Management'?
In which city did Vargas conduct their research?
How many hours did the Major Studio (Voice) course last?
 How is the rice prepared in the Machboos recipe?
What is the location of Kostyniak's Trumpet studio?
What are the credits for Major Instrumental Ensemble?
What percentage of students at Carnegie Mellon identify as ADPI?
What is the name of Carnegie Mellon's official mascot?
What are the locations of 'Ancient Rome: What Have the Romans Ever Done for Us?' classes?
What are the days and times of the class 'IDeATe: Learning in Museums'?
 What can more pretraining be done with according to the text?
Where is the Senior Capstone II class located?
What is the name of the course that starts at 03:30PM and ends at 04:50PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course name for 67265 in the given text?
Who conducted a software engineering practicum internship in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the 'Introduction to Textile Media' class held?
What is the title of the course that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 3:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
Where is the event taking place?
What are the days and times when each course is held?
 What method does the text mention for achieving efficient exploration in GCHRL?
What are the course codes and titles of the classes offered on MTWRF 06:30PM?
What happens if an equivalent graduate course was completed at another institution? Can it be used to satisfy the MLT course requirements?
Who is the author of 'Thiessen Research in Psychology'?
 What was one variant of A-LOL that went into degeneration due to over-optimization of KL penalty in the experiment?
What is the name of the class taught by Moseley C F?
What are Michael Mauldin's notable achievements?
What is the instrument taught in Major Studio (Bagpipe) at DNM?
What is the course code for M.S. Graduate Project, Course Option II offered by Bain?
Where can you find more information about university policies for SCS students?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
Where can a student find information about their department's academic policies and administration in this handbook?
According to the given text, which two colleges are set to meet for the PAC men's basketball title?
What services does Computing Services provide for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Independent Study take place?
What are the courses taught by Fischbeck V for Undergraduate Internship 88505?
What is required for all Master's applications in the School of Computer Science?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed below?
What are the class times and location of 'Introduction to Information Security Management' course?
What is the location of the event?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Design of Artificial Intelligence Products'?
What is the grading standard for courses offered by SCS CMU?
Where can students find information about accommodations for individuals with disabilities at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name and location of George's class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What kind of opportunities for growth and engagement are mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for Software Documentation?
What is the course code for Software & Societal Systems?
What is the name of Vincent Naik's lecture on Experimental Biochemistry?
In what city is the 'Introduction to Linguistic Data Analysis Using R' course held?
Where was the event 'Undergraduate Research Shadowing in Chemistry' held?
 What is the main finding of the user study regarding the use of OCR?
Where can students find the add/drop/withdraw deadlines for their courses?
What are the topics covered in the MUD Graduate Seminar course?
How does the Privacy Policy protect user information?
 How do students interact with machine-learning language models in the StoryQ module?
What are the total points allocated for course registration?
Where is Physical Analysis being taught?
What are the names of the courses offered by Professor Avigad in this semester?
What is the course title for Idzik 76482 and Hinkelman 76487?
 How is the acoustic improvement measured in the context of the PAAP Loss?
Where and when does Thomson's Lighting Design Skills class take place?
What are the dates and times of the two Organic Chemistry II classes?
What are the dates and times for Dietrich College Senior Honors Colloquium?
 What is the importance of the intersection of NLP and psychology highlighted in the text?
What does the abbreviation 'I.S.' stand for in this context?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Engineering Optimization class?
According to the menu options, what are some of the main activities that take place at this institute?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
 What does the optimized code in Figure 6 leverage to reduce complexity?
 What is the maximum relative error observed in Table 4?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
What is the role of the Carnegie Mellon University Tartan Athletics Club in supporting the athletics department?
 What do sparsity methods mainly focus on according to the paper?
How deep could Berliner evaluate chess moves?
When will the Requirements for Embedded Systems course be held?
 What approach was used to explore the Cherokee–English language pair?
What happens if someone exceeds their time-to-degree limit and does not get admitted to a current or future semester?
What is the title of Wasson's M.S. Project 3-12?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
How many views does the video of George Qian have?
What are the names of the courses being offered in Managing Through Incentives and Energy Policy and Economics?
What is the significance of Deep Blue's victory over Kasparov?
When and where does Computational Game Solving (GHC 4211) take place?
What is the name of the course taught by Grama J?
What does the error message suggest you should do if you cannot find what you are looking for?
What do the IDs of the independent studies represent?
What is the location of Williams Advanced Music Studies Studio?
What is the course code and instructor for Independent Study in Finance offered at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the timings for the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty' held in HBH A301?
What is the name of the department at Técnico (ULisboa) that offers this program?
 What GPU is used for running the experiments?
What office offers a robust schedule of professional development opportunities for graduate students?
When can an instructor award a grade of 'I' (incomplete) for a course?
Where is the first meet of the season taking place?
Who are the authors of Senior Composition Project 1.0?
What should the video submitted as part of the MCDS application include?
 What package was used to evaluate the BLEU-2 and ROUGE-L scores?
What are the locations of Hovis' teaching activities?
What is the course name for course code 'NSH 15605'?
What are the names of the courses taught by Jayan A in the given text?
What is the name of the course for HBH 1007 offered on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 10:00 AM to 11:20 AM?
What are the teaching requirements according to the text?
 What are some of the challenges that researchers face in enhancing the performance of speech models?
What is The Carnegie Mellon Code?
 Why is the I3D encoder considered to outperform other models mentioned in the text?
What are the course credits for CEE Challenges: Design in a Changing World in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does the Calligraphy I class take place?
What is the name of the city where the University of Pittsburgh is located?
Is there any mention of alcohol and drug policies in this report?
What does GSA maintain for graduate students at CMU?
Who are the authors of this text?
 What did the experiments show about the performance of KD-DLGAN compared to other methods over CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100?
When and where are Cox-Boyd's Intro to Health Psychology classes held in Doha, Qatar?
 Who provided stakeholder feedback for UE transplant experts and clinicians in the study described?
 What is the main finding regarding combining loss weighting with KNN-MT on automatic metrics?
What does the Eberly Center do in addition to supporting individual graduate students?
What are the dates and times of IT Business Leadership 6.0 A1 M 06:30PM 09:20PM HBH 1004?
What is the purpose of the International Teaching Assistant (ITA) Test?
 What is the second malicious behavior described in the text regarding interactions with the federated system?
What are the dates and times of Power Electronics for Electric Utility Systems class?
What are the additional information sources for Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation (MSAII) program?
What is Project Olympus Startup Incubator?
What is the contact information for reporting serious accidents or accidents taking place elsewhere on campus?
 What does the text suggest about the benefits of AUTOMQM for smaller models like BISON?
What services does the OIE provide for international students?
When and where does the Internship in Clinical Psychology take place?
What is the name of the class that meets on Tuesday from 05:00PM-06:20PM in room HBH 1208?
What are the names of the design areas for 'A Doll’s House'?
What are the names of the instructors for the Defects and Diffusion in Materials course?
Who are the staff members of Language Technologies Institute?
 Which methods performed better for navigation and placement tasks: RL policies or heuristic methods?
What are the two courses offered by Weingart in TEP 2118?
What is the purpose of independent study courses for students who are interested in continuing to a Ph.D. degree?
Who is the Scott Fahlman Research Professor Emeritus at Language Technologies Institute?
How many times can a Master's student use a late course drop voucher per year of study?
How can Carnegie Mellon University students access the university’s health care services?
What are the titles of the two courses taught by Turnshek at HH B103 on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM?
What are the names and locations of all classes taught by Tardio?
What are the class codes and locations for Topics in Research 1-2 and Cancer Biology?
What is disciplinary probation?
What is the name of Nair's course?
 What is required for access to an underlying distribution for top-p (though not top-k) according to the text?
How many positions could Hitech consider per second?
What is the purpose of section 6.15 in the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
Where can students find information about recommended electives outside SCS?
Who teaches Advanced SIS: Ceramics in Advanced SIS: Open Sculpture?
 What is the role of the scaling factor α in estimating wind speed at different heights?
 Which model is utilized to provide a visually-conditioned prompt in the approach described in the text?
Who are the two people that taught at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and their names start with 'Z' and '1', respectively?
What was the effect of his formative years on Hans Berliner?
What is the course code for Calligraphy II?
 What is the focus of the study mentioned in the article?
Which course teaches about Machine Translation in this curriculum?
What are the names of the courses taught by Bockstaller and O’Connor?
What are the course codes of all courses taught by Ms. Eshelman?
Who are the instructors for the ninth and tenth music studies studios mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course that starts at 4:00 PM and ends at 5:45 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
 What is the title of the research paper discussed in the text?
Who is the service provided by?
What does the text discuss regarding office space for MS students?
Who teaches the course 'Moral Psychology'?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
What does the LTI's computer cluster provide for MS students?
What is the name of the course taught by Smith and Weber in Neural Engineering Laboratory?
What are the locations and times of all classes listed in this text?
What are the three courses offered by Dr. Gkioulekas?
 What is the impact of the progressively distilled model on inference speed and performance?
What are the names of the courses offered in the Production Prep: Passage Lighting Production class?
When and where does IDeATe: Learning in Museums take place?
What is the name of the course that focuses on Keyboard Studies for graduate students taught by Larocca and has a duration of 1.0 A2?
Who are the instructors involved in stage management class D for 'A Doll's House'?
 What was the dominant driver of CCN activity transitions as PM2.5 concentration increased?
What is the name of the building where Van Hoesen teaches?
Is it possible for someone who has exceeded the time-to-degree limit at MCDS to continue their studies?
What is the name of Albertus B's classes?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
Who are the instructors for 11935 LTI Practicum?
What are the days and times of the Business, Society and Ethics class?
What are the course codes and titles of the two Stagecraft Sound courses?
What is the name of the university that these players represent?
Where was Voting Rights in the United States held?
What is the name of the event listed at the end of the text?
 Which model performs better in English compared to BLOOMz (1.1B)?
What happens if it's not feasible for a student to follow a particular policy exactly?
What is the name of the course taught by Vinchesi and Weinstein in lecture B MW 12:30PM - 02:50PM?
 How is the Token-and-Duration Transducer (TDT) model faster than conventional Transducers?
 How does Prompt2Model differ from traditional special-purpose NLP models?
According to section 3.3.21, what happens when a student transfers to another program?
What are the days and times that class 17466 - Usable Privacy and Security is offered?
What is the name of the event where Women's Track and Field team participated?
What are the class times for Dangerous Ideas in Science and Society (80101) Lecture on Tuesday, Thursday at 2:00 PM?
Who are the instructors for the course 'Build Your Own Breadboard Computer'?
How can students get support for their spiritual or religious practice at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the minimum TOEFL score required for successful applicants?
What are the names of the courses offered in Intermediate Studio?
What is the course name and number for class A W 09:00AM 09:50AM?
When does Kietrys teach Bioorganic Chemistry: Peptides, Proteins and Combinatorial Chemistry class?
What is the name of Cousin's class and when does it meet?
What are Norman Sadeh's research areas at Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the courses offered in Spanish language and culture at the University?
How can students interested in an ML-Joint Ph.D. apply for it?
Where and when is the 'Avatar: The Last Airbender & The Legend of Korra' course held?
What is the name of Riley's class on Engineering Embedded Systems?
What does the abbreviation 'TBA' stand for?
In which room is Object Oriented Programming in JAVA 12.0 held?
When and where does Farooqi teach Valuation and Financial Modeling?
What are the days, times, and locations for course 15651 Algorithm Design and Analysis?
Are international students allowed to seek off-campus internships without consulting the Office of International Education first?
What do students need to use the recreational facilities in the University Center?
If we decide to not immediately dismiss, what happens in case of a first violation?
What will Aditya discuss in his lecture?
 What is the LT Cvg value for the LightGCN model?
What is an 'LTI course' according to the given text?
Which teacher has a class on Friday?
What were the results of the UAA Championships?
How long do students have to repay the Emergency Student Loan?
What instrument does Carlisle specialize in?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Decision Analytics for Business and Policy?
What does CMU stand for according to the given text?
Who teaches 'Advanced Russian II: Great Short Works'?
Where and when does Principles of Microeconomics with Portnykh take place?
What does the text suggest about Reddy's work?
What is the location of Zhai's class?
What is the title of Blum's class and what time does it start?
What is the location of the Convocation event?
What are the course codes of the Study Abroad program and Computer Science Practicum?
 How are Transformer LMs different from RNN-LMs in considering history?
What is the title of each instructor's supervised teaching project?
What are the course codes for Operating System Practicum B F and Operating System Practicum C F?
When is Stage Rigging Concepts class held?
What are the locations of Design Futures 9.0 and Dietrich College Interdisciplinary Study Abroad courses?
 How many diffusion steps are used for the TSP-100 examples in Figure 12?
Where can you find a list of printers provided by SCS Computer Facilities?
What are some typical research areas for MLT graduates?
What is the name of the person listed under Master’s Degree Research 0-99 A?
Who teaches the class 'Innovation & Entrepreneurial Mindset' at 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
When does Moussawi's class take place and what is its subject?
What is the significance of the year 1982 mentioned in the text?
What is Dusenka teaching?
How many units of courses with a grade of B or higher are needed for students to satisfy their degree requirements?
What are the course codes for Psychology 85050 and Psychology Research Requirement?
When and where does the Prototyping Lab II: Communications class take place?
 Why do the observed inconsistencies arise in the visualizations of object properties in Fig. 3?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 02:00PM for Cline B and Beckwith D?
What time does Topics in Formal Epistemology take place?
What is the location of Mathematics Colloquium at 21997?
What is the name of the event listed in this text?
What is the name of the fourth course mentioned in the text?
 What modeling components in ESPnet-ST-v2 feature interchangeable approaches?
What are the names of the students listed in alphabetical order?
What is the name of the course being taught by Acar, Sleator?
 How does using context affect the correlation of CodeBERTScore, according to the text?
How can you contact the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the course code for Rafson's class?
What are the names of the instructors for Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Teaching Practicum?
When are the classes of 79234 Technology and Society held?
What was Shafi's research focus during her graduate studies?
What is the date and time of the Women's Golf team's event?
What are the names of the courses offered by Professor Anderson and O’Dorney?
Who should contact for more details about these opportunities?
What are the names of the teachers who teach classes starting with 'J'?
What is the course code of the class starting at 10 AM and ending at 1:00 PM on Tuesday, Thursday?
What is the name of the conference mentioned in the text?
 What did the authors thank Felix Hill for in the text?
How many lanes are there in the pool located in the University Center at Carnegie Mellon?
 What is the mean number of papers per participant for expertise evaluations?
Where and when did Men's Tennis play against Denison, and what is the date?
What is the name of Rissinger's class that teaches Grad Diction: French?
When was the post shared on Facebook?
What are the days and times of Product & Business Modeling course offered by Root?
Where are Palchesko's classes located?
 What is the key difference between autoregressive (AR) models and non-autoregressive (non-AR) models in this study?
What is the financial support provided for PhD students at SCS?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches courses like 'Independent Study in Supervised Teaching', 'Diverse Populations in Inclusive Settings', and 'Special Topics: Advanced Skills in English Diction'?
What is the mission of the sports medicine team?
What are the dates and times of Design Thinking for Organizational Transformation course?
What is the location of HH B103?
What does Carnegie Mellon Athletics strive for?
Why wasn't the Accent kernel compatible with UNIX?
What is the purpose of authorizing another individual to receive a copy of their E-Bill on SIO?
Who is the author of this text?
Where can students find information about the accommodation process?
Who teaches Laboratory Methods for Automated Biology II in WEH 5312?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 3:30 PM on Monday and Wednesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the page number mentioned at the end of the text?
What is CMU Alert used for?
Who are the instructors for the Double Bass class?
What are the names of the courses taught by Gomez, McCullough, and Wiener?
What is the course code for Introduction to Hispanic Literary and Cultural Studies: Corporeal Control?
 What is the value of spBLEU200/cost for GPT-4?
When and where are Cox-Boyd's Intro to Health Psychology: Stigma and Its Consequences classes held?
When and where does Yoon teach Calculus II for Biologists and Chemists?
What is the topic of the course taught by Koda and Burns?
What is the location of A10's advanced music studies studio?
What is the subject of each class on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
Where and when does Autonomous Robotics class take place?
What is the course code for Professor Peha's course?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 2:00 PM?
What is the name of the course that teaches Exhibitions Management?
What is the name of the organization where Thiessen conducted their research?
What is the purpose of the Program Committee in MCDS?
What is the name of the instructor for Research Practicum VAR A?
How can I track the status of my application?
How long is the capstone project in this AI curriculum?
 In which language does the concept shift gap exceed the cross-lingual transfer gap for all languages except Swahili?
Where can students find university policies and expectations?
When is Art and Machine Learning held at Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does 'disciplinary probation' mean?
Can international students transfer credits from other institutions during their study period?
What is the name of the course that teaches Professional Writing in Pittsburgh?
What are the course codes for U.S. Latinos: Language and Culture and Introduction to Hispanic Literary and Cultural Studies: Corporeal Control?
Where can students find assistance if they have disabilities at CMU?
 What is used to assess the population fitness in fine alignment based on the GA?
What are the names of the authors listed first and last in this list?
In which room does Barr teach MSCF Business Communication II H?
What is the name of the second Instructor TBA?
What is included in Carnegie Mellon's campus security and fire safety report?
What are the names of all the classes that Touretzky is attending?
What are the days and times when Modern Essentials and Mini-Course in Special Relativity are taught?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
 What is unique about the proposed incremental blockwise beam search in terms of quality-latency control?
What are the days and times of the instructor's classes in the second block?
Where are recycling bins available in athletic spaces and events?
Where does Kliewer teach his Bias, Objectivity, and the Media's Role in Politics class?
 What is the main focus of the IPA in the text?
What is the course title of Shamos' class offered on Thursday at 02:00PM - 03:20PM?
 What are the parameters used for the STFT applied in the given text?
How many authors are listed in the text?
What are the days and times of the class taught by Fredrikson in room 4708 on Tuesdays from 3:30 PM to 4:50 PM?
When does the Production Prep for Lighting Production start?
When and where does Computational Modeling, Statistical Analysis and Machine Learning in Science take place?
Who should students contact if they have questions about professional development opportunities at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is the instructor of 'Student Taught Course: Contemporary and Marginalized Poetics Workshop'?
Where can I get more information about student and affiliate ID cards?
Where do Riley and Gedawy teach their class?
How many times does each letter appear in this text?
 How many templates did GPT-4 achieve a 100% task success rate on?
What will Kunal Khadilkar discuss at the TEDx Conference?
Where can students find information about Office of Graduate and Post-Doc Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is included in The WORD?
What are the course codes and titles offered in the Water Resources Chemistry class?
What are the days when classes of 79233 Forced Displacement, Migration, and Statelessness in the Modern Middle East and 79245 Capitalism and Individualism in American Culture are held?
Who is Ethan Reifer?
 How were the preliminary experiments conducted in terms of computational resources?
What is the course name for MWF 02:00PM - 04:50PM class?
What kind of professional development opportunities are offered by the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE)?
What were the dates of the event?
What are the days and times for Professor Oppenheimer's two undergraduate research courses ('Undergraduate Research 1-18 B' and 'Rise of the Asian Economies')?
Where does Bjorndahl teach his Teaching Assistant / Grader in Philosophy course?
How many units of graduate courses are required to obtain a Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies?
What is the purpose of the 'Office of Sponsored Programs Policy for Handling Alleged Misconduct of Research'?
What is the name of Shen's class at 4:00 PM?
How do students identify their library liaison in their field?
Where can MS students find photocopies and printers at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is teaching Collaborative Piano I?
 How does the model address the mismatch between language embeddings of seen and unseen languages?
What are the days, times, and instructors when the Practical Unstructured Data Analytics course takes place?
What happens if a student seems to be having trouble?
What are the names of the instructors for Shea 47896 and Hollifield W?
What is discussed in section 6.1.7?
What are the names of the students who taught the courses in this schedule?
What are the names of the speakers and their respective topics in Los Angeles, California?
Which team did the Tartans defeat on February 24, 2024?
What are the three production preparation classes mentioned in this text?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Opera?
How can one get in touch with the university's media contacts for news and events purposes?
What are the days and times when the 'Production Prep: Penelope: Media Design' class will be held?
What is the Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students about?
How can students confirm their enrollment status and maximum units allowed in SIO?
Where and when does the lecture take place according to the text?
When did Men's Tennis play against Allegheny?
What is the purpose of the Office of International Education (OIE) at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the purpose of the Office of Community Standards and Integrity (OCSI)?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on MWF from 09:00AM to 09:50AM at CUC FITNES in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the instructors for Reading and Research?
What is the fax number of Language Technologies Institute (LTI) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the process for sponsored students to pay their tuition fees?
What is Eric Nyberg's research interests?
What is the purpose of the introduction section in the text?
What are the days and times of the Science Writing course?
What is the location of E class?
 What is the ground truth source for the clusters in the OPIEC59k dataset?
 What does data augmentation aim to achieve in training E2E ASR models?
 What metric is used for the evaluation of prosody diversity in the text-to-speech system?
Who is receiving an Outstanding Recent Alumni Award from CMU?
 How does UNSSOR perform with TCN-DenseUNet compared to TF-GridNet?
What is the purpose of providing written feedback after a student's oral presentation?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What should students do if they have questions that need specialized, in-depth attention at CMU?
What is the name of the third course?
What school did Shane Hauck attend before high school?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
Which player from the 2023 Tartan Volleyball Roster is from Houston, Texas?
 What is the main challenge of applying GI to the mobile domain?
What is the name of the school that Haley Fitzgerald attends?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What is the name of the office that assists individuals with disabilities at CMU?
What are the days and times for User-Centered Research and Evaluation?
What is the name of class C that meets on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is the location of the LTI in relation to Pittsburgh?
What time did the Men's Track and Field team compete in West Virginia Stan Romanoski Open?
What are the three courses being offered in this schedule?
How many majors does the MCDS program offer?
 What is the number of features for each treatment sample in the CTRP dataset?
When does Wall teach Elementary Guided Teaching?
What are the courses offered on Wednesday at 05:00 PM?
Why did Nico Habermann recruit Dana Scott?
What is the role of consultants in helping clients improve their projects?
What should a student do to protect themselves from potential intellectual property problems during an internship?
What type of parking is available near the campus?
What are the instructors' names of all courses offered at NSH 1305?
 How should the release of artifacts be integrated into the reviewing process according to the text?
 Which research paper was published in Vet. Radiol. Ultrasound in 2007?
What is considered a serious violation in the university?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
What are the dates and times of Security Data Analytics 6.0 A2 M 06:30PM 09:20PM HBH 1004?
What position does Caleb Brobst play?
What is the name of the third location mentioned?
What instrument does Shields, Van Hoesen teach in the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)?
What are some research projects conducted at the Language Technologies Institute related to Multimodal Computing and Interaction?
 What issue can occur with the accuracy of PAR if the gCTC result is not accurate?
 What licenses are associated with the software and data used in the paper?
Where is the School of Computer Science Help Center located?
Who is the instructor for Major Studio (Violin) 9.0 A?
What is the purpose of the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
Why was Angel Jordan unpopular at that time?
What is Venny Ayudiani's academic program?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses listed in the schedule that start at 7:00 PM?
What is the title of the course being taught at 12:30 PM?
What is the course code for Drug Delivery Systems?
When does Wickesberg's literature and repertoire event take place?
Who teaches the class 'Game Design, Prototyping and Production'?
What are the class codes for Boevers' Stage Rigging Concepts and Introduction to Lighting Design Skills classes?
What is the email address of Robert Frederking?
Who teaches Institutions of the Roman Church in Pittsburgh?
When does the course 'Introduction to Embedded Systems' take place?
 What was different in the training setup for BigGAN architecture compared to StyleGAN and MHGAN?
What is the course code for Experience Design in PTC MPR Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the dates, times, and location for Studio: Survey of Design (MM A6)?
What are the course codes for GHC 5230 and MI 448?
Why is it important for students at Carnegie Mellon University to adhere to these standards?
In which semester does this special topics in HCI class fall?
Who teaches the course titled 'Matrices and Linear Transformations' on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 3:00 PM to 3:50 PM in room DH 2302?
What is the name of Gloria's class in Production Prep?
 What is the training objective of a Neural Machine Translation (NMT) model?
What is the name of the course that starts at 10:00 AM on Tuesday in room CFA ACH?
How do College Liaisons address student concerns across different departments and colleges?
What is the name of the degree mentioned in this text that has a 21902 component?
When and where does Virtue teach Art and Machine Learning?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What is the name of the course being taught by Engineer E in room WEH5310 at 2:00 PM?
Is it possible to receive Pass/Fail grades according to the handbook?
Why was the Black and Latinx Athlete Coalition (BLAC) formed?
 What is the average of the numbers 46.0, 53.1, 51.1, 40.2, and 46.0?
What are the requirements to graduate from the MLT program?
What is the name of the building where Yoon E2 class is held?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
Describe a typical schedule for students in the dual PhD program during their first year.
When and where does the Spacecraft Design-Build-Fly Laboratory course take place?
What is the name of the course being offered by Wassif?
What is the course code for Global Justice?
What is the course title of Shamos' class offered on Friday at 01:00PM - 01:50PM?
What is the employer reimbursement process for students with an employer reimbursement plan?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
What are some potential applications of optimal transport in the field of computer vision?
What is the time and location of D section of Principles of Software Construction: Objects, Design, and Concurrency?
Who are the two teachers teaching Prototyping Lab I: Products in MM 211 on Tuesday?
What is the significance of being part of an academic community dedicated to achieving excellence?
 What datasets are used as source datasets in the embedder training process?
What is the location of the university listed in the text?
What is the course title, instructor, and time for History and Future of Interaction Design?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered in History and Culture?
What is the policy of Carnegie Mellon University regarding Employment Eligibility Verification?
What is the course code and title of 'Introduction to Lighting Management'?
Which department is responsible for computational biology at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the purpose of each activity listed in the text?
What should a student do if they are not satisfied with the resolution of their request for an amendment?
What is the name of the course taught by Thomas at B23 118 in San Jose, California?
What is the name of the class that teaches Cardio Fitness/Sculpt?
What are the names of the courses taught by Mozisek on CMU REMOTE?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What types of workshops and group sessions does Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) offer?
Where is the city of Pittsburgh located?
Who are the head coaches for Women's Volleyball and Men's Track & Field at Andrew University?
 What issue arises when the value of a fixed-ratio scheme is too small?
In what class did Goldwasser begin her collaboration with Micali on cryptography?
Why is it important for individuals in an academic community to hold others accountable for standards?
What should students do if they realize that one of the situations mentioned applies to them?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
What is the definition of an 'SCS course' according to the given text?
What is the course code of the Costume Design for the Classics class?
What are the undergraduate courses for an MCDS degree?
What are the class timings for Advanced Designer Draping?
What are the time slots of Integral Calculus?
What event did Tartans finish playing in Women's Tennis section?
What additional resources does the university offer to its students?
 What is the title of the publication referenced in the text?
Who is the instructor for Scenic Design?
 What study did Callan et al (2022) conduct regarding app performance improvements?
Who teaches Special Topics in German Studies 3-12?
 Which month had the maximum relative difference in BC column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval over the SOA region?
What is the location of Yang QQ?
What is the role of LTI Orientation for new students at CMU?
Who will be receiving CMU's Outstanding Recent Alumni Award?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by instructor Sudbury?
What are the days, times, and locations of Nourbakhsh's course?
Why is it important for Carnegie Mellon University students to complete a course during an academic semester?
Where is the event/conference mentioned in this text held?
What is the purpose of the capstone project in a student's academic journey?
What are the days and times for Personal Fitness 3.0 A1, B1, and B2 classes?
What are the key topics covered under 'Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing'?
What is the course title of Mertz's lecture on Practical Data Science?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
At what time does Martello's Photography and the Ephemeral start?
Who are the instructors for each letter?
What are the names of the courses being taught in the given text?
When and where are the classes of Introduction to Astronomy held?
Where can students go if they have questions about upcoming campus events or general information about Carnegie Mellon?
What are the days and times for History Prospectus 5-36 and History Dissertation 5-36?
What are the time slots of Russman, Hanson W's schedule?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): Carnegie Scenic?
How many pages is the student handbook for 2022-2023?
Who are the instructors for 'Penelope: Lighting Production'?
What is the purpose of LTI Orientation?
What are the four topics covered in the SMART Program's educational sessions?
Does each department at CMU have its own handbook for graduate students?
What website should students visit to find the most up-to-date information on public health and safety requirements?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
 In the experiment assessing the trade-off between translation quality and latency, what parameter was modified?
Who is the instructor of the class that meets in CMB 2049 with Major 70471 Supply Chain Management?
 What kind of learning was employed in the research for singing voice synthesis?
 What approach is used for adaptation when training data from the target domain is not available?
Who is the instructor for Health Law course?
What are some other resources that MIIS graduate students can consult during their tenure at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of the LGBTQ+ Initiatives program at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can I find the university policy on academic integrity?
Do I need to audition for The Kiltie Band?
What are the two time slots for Production Prep at Lighting Production J?
What is the name of the second meet in the schedule?
What day of the week does Series F2 start on?
 What is the focus of this work in terms of fairness notions?
What was the final score of the Women's Basketball game between Emory and Carnegie Mellon?
What are the components of the MIIS program?
Where does the Interactive Data Science class take place?
What is the name of the course held by Levinson on Wednesday?
What are the course codes for Banned Books and Books You Should Have Read By Now?
 What are the key characteristics desired in blockwise beam search (BWBS) models for SST applications?
What made Carnegie University different from others according to Traub?
Who makes the decision about transfer credit or course exemption?
What is the course code for Structure and Design of Digital Systems?
When does the The Business of Software with Thomas start in San Jose, California?
When was the Institute for Software Research formed?
Who can use Wiegand Gymnasium?
What year was WEH 5201 established?
What are the subjects taught by Watson N?
What is the focus of deep disciplinary knowledge according to this text?
How can students access Health Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What does the column spBLEU200/cost show in the text?
Who is Franko associated with WEH 5201?
Can I get a waiver from English proficiency test?
What are the course codes for Tech Start-up: Market Discovery and Special Topics: Tech Start-up: Building Your Own Company?
How many players are on the roster for the 2023-24 Tartan Men's Basketball team?
Where is the search form located on this website?
When and where will the NCAA Div. III Region 4 Diving Championships take place?
What is the name of the course taught by Evans at W 05:00PM 06:20PM TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Organizational Design & Implementation?
 How many benchmark tasks are included in the ready-to-use benchmark released with WebArena?
What is the subject of Johnston's second Independent Study?
Can educational experience in English from any country result in a test waiver?
What was the topic of the article published on October 17, 2023?
 How does the system handle the processing load in high-load situations?
When is Brass Methods offered?
What is the course code for Wright, Brown's class offered in PH A19?
What does it mean when a student says they are taking an elective course outside of their program?
What is the course name and duration for Elective Recital 1.0 A2 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can Master's students remain in close contact with their graduate program if they require longer than the standard time to complete their degree?
Who is responsible for the fees of prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures and referral to the emergency room or specialists?
Who is teaching Lec 1 of Integration and Approximation (21122) at Penn State?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
How does machine translation help break down barriers in communication?
What are the topics covered in the Urban Design Studio I course?
What are some policies that govern research activities at the university?
What does plagiarism mean in academic integrity?
Which player is from Charlotte, North Carolina?
What are the class names and days for Labash E3?
Where can you find more information about this office and its role in supporting research?
What did Rick Rashid's sister Norma say about him?
What are the course codes for E W 01:00PM and F W 02:00PM?
What is the name of the study abroad program in this text?
What evidence should an applicant provide if they are a participant of one of the listed programs or organizations?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
 What happens when the volume flow through the glottis is reduced during phonation?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Methods for Statistics & Data Science?
What is the purpose of the Newsletter to all graduate students?
How can students get feedback on their academic performance at Carnegie Mellon Home?
What are the requirements to earn an MCDS degree?
Who is the captain of the 2023-24 Tartan Men's Basketball team?
In which room does Building Controls and Diagnostics take place?
What are the timings of the course 'Special Topics: ST Introduction to Software Engineering'?
How can MIIS students change their address?
 How can volatile chemical substances be compared with the database?
 What evaluation metrics were used in the experiments mentioned in the text?
What should students do if they want to transfer out of the MIIS program?
What is the name of the course taught by Wigington and Fisher (98150) at 8:00 PM on Wednesday in room POS 145?
What is the name of the instructor for the Lighting Design course?
When and where does Delfini's Elementary Italian II class take place?
What was the topic of the lecture 'Authoritarian Influence and Democracy: Lessons from around the World'?
Who are the authors listed in alphabetical order?
 Give an example of two research frameworks that users can utilize in Pentathlon.
What are the names of the courses that Portnykh teaches?
What is the responsibility of each member of the Carnegie Mellon community?
 How does BARTScore approach text generation evaluation?
What is the course code for Practicum in Biomedical Engineering?
What are the names and days/times of classes taught by Novosat I?
 How was KALE implemented?
What is the name of the course taught by Kulasiri and its location?
How do you print a file after sending it to the print queue?
Who teaches Acting I at PCA 318?
When are the production preparation classes for Lorca: Costume Production held?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Senior Design Studio: Environments' at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
 What is the observation regarding ceiling effects in RL1 evaluation according to the text?
What are the days and times of the instructor's classes in the fourth block?
 What does Temporal Degradation (TD) measure in the time evaluation details?
What is the last name of the author who instructs at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the instructors at Quesenberry D4 and E3?
What sports events are mentioned in the text?
What are the names of all the Data Science class locations?
 How do most data augmentation methods perform data perturbation in E2E ASR models?
What are the course codes for Rafson's Hines Competition and Danes' Design and Documentation in Revit VAR?
What did Tartans impress in during Fall Semester?
 What determines whether a sentence is considered stable or unstable in the text processing component?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Schafer at TCS 251?
What is the hometown of Nadim Motaghedi?
Who were the instructors for the 57690 Practicum course?
Where can students find the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Wednesday at 11:00 AM in room HBH 2008?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Lighting Design?
What are the course codes for the classes taught by Narra and Thompson in Structural Design?
Where is the Psychology Research Requirement located?
When is the final application deadline for the School of Computer Science?
What did Clarke and McMillan observe about memory locations in practical-sized systems?
What is the course code for 'Finance for Innovation Management'?
Where does the 'Dynamic Network Analysis' course take place?
What were some areas of research at Carnegie-Mellon's Computer Science Department in the early 1980s?
 Which method achieved an IoU of 73.9 with rain as the target?
Where is the lecture on Generative AI and Large Language Model being held?
 How many images are in the set for evaluation?
 What was the rationale behind varying the size of the KALE vocabulary?
Where was the Women's Golf event held?
In which room is lecture A of Foundations of Programming Languages held?
On what date did the Gate City Invitational take place at The Country Club of Meadville in Pennsylvania?
When did Carnegie Mellon play their eighth game?
What are the days and times of Major Instrumental Ensemble?
What is the significance of 'the good of the community above the good of the self' at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times for Department Research Honors 3-24?
When and where does Professor Bernstein's class meet?
What happens if a student drops a course before the deadline?
 What sentiment transfer is showcased in Example (e)?
What are the class times and location of Honors Research Project?
What happens if a student fails to submit an independent study contract by the deadline?
What are the locations, times and subjects of Cho's classes?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
What are the two time slots mentioned in the text where scenic design work will be done for Penelope?
What is the purpose of the Policy Against Retaliation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is their mission?
Who is the instructor for Elective Studio (Trumpet)?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What is the course code for Financial Time Series Analysis taught by Kuchibhotla?
What does the abbreviation 'W' stand for?
What are the course types for the courses listed in the text?
What services does Carnegie Mellon offer for transportation outside of the main campus?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Distributed Systems: Techniques, Infrastructure, and Services in both Pittsburgh and San Jose?
What is the last name of the author who instructs at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course offered on Wednesday at 12:00PM in SH 238, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How do MERRA-2 reanalysis BC products compare to GRASP/Component BC retrievals over biomass burning and BC-affected areas?
What are the names of the two people teaching the 'Lighting Design I' and 'Media Design' classes?
How many units of study are required for an MCDS degree?
What are the days and times of the Cycling Core class taught by Stragar?
What are the names of the locations listed in the text?
 What is the content of alcohols in W3?
How many followers does this page have according to the text?
 What do the authors propose to improve coherence and overcome memory constraints in end-to-end speech translation?
What is the subject of Shields' Independent Study?
What is the purpose of reviewing the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
 Why does the VSD system outperform the ASD system in terms of MISS, SPKERR, and DER?
What resources does the Graduate Student Assembly website provide for spouses, domestic partners, and families of graduate students?
What is the name of the instructor for the course '67404 Blockchain Applications 9.0'?
What was Dr. Newell's main area of work at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes for Contemporary Comedy by Historically Underrepresented Groups and Post-Dramatic Theatre?
In which room does the 'Fundamentals of Costume Design' class take place?
Where is The HUB Student Services Center located?
When does Literature and Repertoire: French Horn start?
Which office is responsible for providing counseling and psychological services on campus?
 Under what conditions did the relationship between (D75 − D25)/D50 and D50 not fit well with an exponential function?
Where can a visitor find information about parking on campus?
What is the relationship between commitment to academic standards and respect for Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is the information about SIO mentioned in the text?
When was Lai honored by AVCA as All-Region and what is the context of this recognition?
When does Computational Discrete Mathematics take place in Doha, Qatar?
When is the M.S. Research Final Report due?
What are the topics for Topics in the History of the African Diaspora?
What is the combined mission of these libraries?
 What is the purpose of CUDA Graph kernel serialization and PyTorch BetterTransformer framework optimizations?
What are the course codes and instructors for Neuropharmacology (03366) and Molecular and Cellular Immunology (03390)?
Why do English proficiency score reports are required if you will be studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa?
When is the first rehearsal?
What is the course code for 'Advanced Interaction Design C'?
Who is the instructor teaching in WEH 4709?
What is the course code for Special Topics Russian Studies held on Saturdays?
Who is responsible for directing the 'Love and Money' VAR Directing course that starts at 6:30 PM on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday?
When does Foundations of Computational Data Science II take place?
Is it necessary for international MCDS students to consult with the Office of International Education before seeking an internship/co-op or signing an offer contract?
Who teaches the Introduction to Deep Learning course?
Where is the office location of Daniel Fried?
What are the names of the courses taught by Liu, Wang, Dong?
In which room and at what time does Tonguz teach Applied Stochastic Processes?
What are the timings for the Special Topics in Music: connection to self and others through music class?
What is the role of the Division of Student Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is Baird J and what event does he participate in?
 What are the aspects of E2E ASR covered in the survey?
Is it mandatory for students to maintain full-time enrollment status in their final semester?
What are the class times for Escallon Barrios and Goranson's sections of Data Analytics?
Where can students request Enrollment Verification?
What are the course codes for Practicum in Mathematical Sciences and Advanced Topics in Analysis?
How many credits does the Graduate Research Seminar II course have?
What are the class names and their respective instructors for the classes held on Friday at MM 215 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes and titles for Fang's courses in Software Engineering Management?
What are the course names, instructors, and credit hours of McComb's classes?
What is the location of the internship offered by Willard Younis?
At what time does Movement II start in Room 313 on Monday, Wednesday?
Who is the instructor for the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Horn in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the functions of the Wright-Rogal Chapel?
What is the mission of The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the time and location of Data Stories course?
How many instructors are listed in this text?
When and where is Alexander Technique class held?
What is the purpose of course 17-762 in earning an MSAII degree?
What should applicants do if they need financial assistance to apply for this program?
Who are the instructors for QTBA and TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the people involved in the production management activities mentioned in this text?
What does the policy cover regarding drop/withdrawals?
What is the location of Carnegie Mellon University's campus?
When does lighting production start for Hanson's schedule?
What is the purpose of safeguarding educational equity in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What event did Tartans open play at?
What is the name of the course mentioned in the second-to-last line of the text?
How many pages is the document Appendix A: 2020-2021 Highlighted University Resources for Graduate Students and The WORD, Student Handbook?
What are Professor's research interests?
What did Michael Loren 'Fuzzy' Mauldin do before creating the Lycos search engine?
What is the name of the office mentioned in A.2.4 that handles research at CMU?
What is the course 'Full Stack Skills for Engineers' about?
What is the date of the game against Brandeis?
What is the purpose of the University Policy on Grades?
What are the topics covered in McCullough's courses?
What is the name of the person who will be working on Directing for Lonely Planet?
When is the Cyber Law and Ethics course being held?
When and where are the VAR Directing course held?
Where is Network Analysis: The Hidden Structures behind the Webs We Weave held?
Who is teaching Integration and Approximation in Lecture 1?
What is the location of the Main Office for The Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Interaction Design Fundamentals and Designing Human Centered Software?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Research 3-9 A at Pittsburgh University?
 What is the role of contrastive learning in PointDR?
What does the university aim to achieve for its community?
 What is the purpose of adjusting the sampling temperature in the dataset generator?
Can students take electives outside of SCS?
What are the course codes for Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences?
Who are the instructors for Composition UA and Composition UB at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What is the title of the course that starts at 12:00 PM on Monday and lasts for 7.0 hours?
How many programs are offered by Técnico (ULisboa) and Carnegie Mellon?
 What is the purpose of using the Robolectric testing library in the GI framework?
What are the names of the authors mentioned in the text, along with their respective works?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in Advanced Topics in Foundations of Programming Languages and Secure Computer Systems?
What was the outcome of the Tartans' game in the NCAA First Round?
What are the class times and locations for Williams E4?
 How many human-chatbot multi-turn conversations were collected for the HCChinese dataset?
What does 'LTI' stand for in the context of this handbook?
What are the names of the courses that start at 11:00 AM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What services does PNC Bank offer at Carnegie Mellon's University Center?
What are the names of the instructors who teach at BH 140A?
What is the role of Language Support in the Student Academic Success Center at Carnegie Mellon University?
Which component in CTAT allows you to build a DragNDrop tutor interface?
When does Myers NN teach?
Who is Nicholas Kourakis?
Who conducted Societal Computing Pre-Thesis D in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Projects: Integrating the Built, Natural and Information Environments?
 What did the paper present a framework for?
What instrument does van der Sloot teach at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What is the name of Garlan's class on Law of Computer Technology?
 What is the beam size used during inference?
 What approach did Zhang et al. (2019) and Zhou et al. (2023b) use in metric learning for NLP?
What are the days/times for course HBH 1004 and what does it teach?
What are the days and times of Strom's classes in this schedule?
What is the purpose of submitting official transcripts from each university you have attended?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the days of the week, time, and location for Computational Perception in room WEH 4708?
 What improvements were generally found in language quality in models trained on more difficult distractors?
Which office provides support for international students at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors at Schepkin AB?
Who teaches Game Theory Applications for Economics and Business (course code 73347)?
What is the course code for Large Language Model Systems?
What is the course code for Of Minorities and Migrants: Exploring Germany from the Margins?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
Is Bista's class a required or elective course?
 What is the title of the paper by Banerjee and Lavie discussing an automatic metric for MT evaluation?
What is the title of the first class listed in the schedule?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Information Systems?
What are the days and times of the classes listed?
What are the class names and days for Labash P4?
What is the purpose of the second half of the text?
What is QPA calculations?
When and where is Special Topics: Sensors, Circuits, and Data Interpretation and Mgmt for Infrastructure Systems offered?
 What task does the text mention exploring KD-DLGAN in besides generation?
 How does the paper suggest addressing the challenge of defining and extracting fine-grained claims?
What are the names of the teachers who teach in room POS 145 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the requirement for writing a dissertation as part of an LTI Ph.D. degree?
What is the location of Tarr in the text?
Who teaches at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Clarinet LB?
What are the names of the instructors for Eurhythmics III?
What should a student do if they want to transfer out of the MCDS program?
 What is the batch size used in the experiment?
Why did researchers shift their focus after Thompson's paper was published?
What are Anatole Gershman's research areas?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches at Pennsylvania Instructor TBA E TBA TBA?
 What type of dataset is Natural Questions (NQ) BEIR?
What is the name of the class that teaches about Production Prep?
What is one unique ability that Scotty has?
When did CMU's School of Computer Science celebrate its 25th year as a standalone college?
What is the definition of 'course' in this handbook?
 What does a positive value in the vertical wind field plots indicate?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in PTC 5208 on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
What is the name of the class taught by Strickland D on MWF at 11:00 AM?
Where is AI for Humanities: The Multi-dimensions of World Languages, Arts, and Cultures held?
What are the days and times of the courses in this schedule?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at the given time slot?
What is the purpose of Student Information Online (SIO)?
What is the name of the institute's intranet?
What should international students do if English is not their native language?
 What are MWS+23 collections?
When is Costume Crafts: Fabric Modification class held?
 How is the vectorized beam search different from traditional beam search in the PAR architecture?
 What is the name of the phenomenon described in the text where increases in computational throughput and reductions in floating point operations do not directly translate to improvements in wall-clock inference latency?
 How is the pruning target able to regularize the training according to the text?
What is the course name and days of ETC Cooperative Education in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering?
What are the different types of faculty mentioned in the text?
What kind of information can be found on Student Information Online (SIO) according to section 7.2?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Thermal Physics II and Undergraduate Research?
What are the time slots for each teacher's class?
What was the vision outlined by Perlis, Simon and Newell for computer science?
What is the name of the third course mentioned in the text?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 3:30 PM and is taught by Posner?
How can students ensure they receive maximum federal financial aid eligibility?
Who are the instructors for Directed Study in EPP: Undergraduate and M.S. Project?
 What approach is considered effective for building multitasking algorithmic systems in speech, audio, and vision domains?
What are the names of the two courses that start with 'Metrics'?
What is the course code and title of the Chinese Language and Culture: 9.0 China Before the Republic class offered at 11:00AM in room PH 126A?
Which professor is teaching Graduate Core Course: Social at 9:00 AM on Tuesdays and Thursdays in room BH 336A?
What is the phone number for contacting the Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the average SEScore for the Turkic language group?
What are the days, times, and location where Christin teaches 'Cryptocurrencies, Blockchains and Applications'?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study 1-12 A and DNM DNM?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Chemistry?
What are the options for login and logout in Connect section?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Literature & Culture - Third Cinema: People, Language, and Culture in Documentary Storytelling?
Where is the location of Park 17997?
What are the names of the courses offered by TBA Instructor Y at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Why is the selection of specific individuals for direct exceptions challenging?
What information can be found regarding Title IX application at Carnegie Mellon University?
Does the Financial Aid Office of Carnegie Mellon provide assistance in completing paperwork for any other types of loans besides Stafford loans?
What is the course code for Introduction to Mathematical Physics I?
Where and when will Yang B present their talk?
What should a student do if they need help with their invoice?
What is the URL of the Office of International Education (OIE) at CMU?
What are the course codes for GHC 5225 and DH 1112?
What are the names and times of Designing Human Centered Software classes at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days, times, and location of Introduction to Yoga classes?
What is the role of independent study supervisors in CMU?
What is the name of the practicum course that takes place on Tuesdays from 4:00 PM to 9:00 PM in room DNM DNM?
Who are the officers of the Kiltie Band according to the text?
What are the locations of the Structural Design classes taught by Thompson and Rabin?
 What was the expectation for non-exemplar-based prompts in the experiments?
Where is the Office location of Yonatan Bisk?
When and where is Dissertation Research offered?
Where is Computing Services located?
Where can I find more information about off-campus housing options near Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days of the second class?
Where can students find additional resources and information about these issues?
 What is XNLI?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the classes being taught by the instructor who teaches WR 5:00 PM - 6:20 PM?
Which courses are part of the Breadth Courses: Machine Learning category in Master's program?
What are the names of the courses that start at 7:00 PM on Wednesday in CFA A6?
 What library is used to index the encoded inputs in a kNN index?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in PH 107E at 2:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
What is the course code and instructor for Junior Independent Study offered on Monday, Wednesday at 9:30 AM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of having an Important Contacts list in SIO?
What are the class names and locations for Sudia's classes?
Where does Barrois teach his Intermediate Studio: Print Media class?
Where did the University of Chicago play their first game?
Who teaches 'Piano Pedagogy III' and 'Assessment in Music Education'?
What is the policy on withdrawal of degree by University?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Lean Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurial Alternatives?
What is the name of the event that took place on Thu, Apr/06 at 3:00 p.m.?
What is the title of the course being held at CMB 2163 from 10:00AM to 11:50AM on Tuesday?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
Who taught the course 'Intro to Sabermetrics'?
What was highlighted by Carnegie Mellon Athletics in their 2022-23 annual report?
What are the names and meeting times for classes in Kohler F1?
What is the duration of doctoral programs in graduate school?
 What is the size of the datastore built on the training data mentioned in the text?
Which player has the jersey number 5 on the 2023 Tartans Women's Soccer roster?
 What is used to improve the choice of self-supervised learning (SSL) features in the paper?
What are the options available to SCS students who want to take elective courses outside of their program?
What kind of data does Professor want to utilize for improving speech and natural language processing?
 What is the key task involved in assuming the noisy label originates from a probability distribution?
 What is the CER for the HiFi-CAR model?
What is the name of the competition that Bhuwan Dhingra won at CMU?
Are Research Assistant-ships guaranteed for MLT students?
What is the title of Cruickshank's Independent Study and when does it meet?
Who is the instructor for Pennsylvania Schlossman's Independent Study?
What is the overall goal of Graham Neubig's research?
What is the role of each student at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course taught by Stupka in Internship for Graduate Students?
When does 'Programming Language Pragmatics' take place?
How does speech and multimedia technology impact our daily interaction with computers?
What was the name of the event where Women's Tennis played against Duquesne?
 What software is used for data processing?
How can a user log in to this page?
In which room does the 'Introduction to Design Innovation' course take place?
What is the emergency phone number for Carnegie Mellon University's police department?
What document provides more information about the university’s I-9 and E-Verify requirements?
 What is required in order to select the best combination of target sparsities in the method?
Can PCHE course taken through cross-registration count towards full-time status?
Where can students find information about Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Health Insurance Policy?
 For which models are all memorized training images displayed?
What is the course code and title of the Strategy Development course offered on Monday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
When and where does Thermal-Fluids Experimentation take place?
 How was hepatocellular carcinoma with MVI-positive confirmed in the 41-year-old male patient?
Where is the course 'Special Topics in Music: VAR' held?
What is A.1.6 in the given text?
What is the phone number of Eric Nyberg's office?
What are the names of the other instructors mentioned in the text?
Who teaches Computation and Data Science for Civil & Environmental Engineering 9.0 Lec M 03:00PM 03:50PM BH A51?
Can suspended students receive transfer credit from other institutions?
Who teaches Yoder's course on Fandom in Music and Media at NM Los Angeles?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study in Electronic and Experimental Music 3-9 A?
 How was OS defined in this study?
Who is the second LTI faculty member to be inducted into SIGIR Academy?
 What models are selected for the experimental results?
What is the date of Project Olympus Startup Incubator event?
What is the course name for TBA 57973?
What is the name of the course taught by Audia?
 How is the gene ARID1A related to speech production according to the text?
What are the requirements for language-test waivers at a U.S. high school, college or university?
Where can students find more information about disability resources at CMU?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:30 AM on Tuesday?
What is the email address of Daniel Fried?
Where can a student find information about Graduate Student Appeal and Procedures at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for 'EPP Projects I'?
How many lines are there in this text?
Where are the classes 67240 Mobile Web Design & Development, 67265 Design Fundamentals: Shaping Interactions and Experiences, and 67309 Special Topics: Information Assurance and Security held?
 What technique applies weight decay on UVT during factorized low-rank training?
Who are Hansen and Merrell teaching Advanced ETB: Digitally Mediated Performance?
How can someone share information about Wiegand Gymnasium?
What departments were formed at CMU after the Center for Machine Translation became the Language Technologies Institute?
What is Chenyan Xiong's phone number according to the text?
How does Professor Rosé use computational systems to improve conversation between people and computers?
What is the name of the alumni chapter associated with this institution?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C108 from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM on Monday?
What are the locations, times and subjects of Slepcev's classes?
What is the meeting time for Zajdel's course in Introduction to Electrical and Computer Engineering?
When and where will Security War Game Simulation be held?
What are the names of the instructors for independent studies in Pennsylvania?
What are the two facilities mentioned in section 7.17 and 7.18?
What are the class names and instructors for the classes held on Tuesday at 8:30 AM?
Who are the instructors for Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12, and 15?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered in MM 119 at CFA KRESGE on Monday?
What is the policy on Leaves of Absence (LOA) in LTI?
 How does the effectiveness of multi-objective search compare to single-objective search?
In which year does this course take place?
Who is the instructor for Graduate Recitation (piano 1st year) 1.0 A4 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 Which policy showed less degradation in performance when using DETIC?
 What is the role of solar altitude angle and sky condition in solar PV power generation?
What are the names of the classes being offered in Production Prep for Lonely Planet on Wednesday and Friday evenings from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What does the text suggest about the Eberly Center's approach to teaching strategies?
Who is the message addressed to?
What does Alexander Hauptmann research in the field of Multimodal Computing and Interaction?
What are the dates for Employment Eligibility Verification and MSAII Orientation?
When does SafeWalk operate?
Who are the instructors listed at the end of the text?
Does the School of Computer Science provide black-and-white and color printers for use by students?
What is the title of the second panel discussion happening on October 11?
 What information is provided in Table 1 for each syndrome listed?
How can one obtain a copy of this report?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Interaction Design Fundamentals: Interaction Design for Human-Computer Interaction A'?
What is the name of the institution that will be partnering with Instituto de Filosofia (Universidade do Porto) in this year-long initiative?
Which team does Carnegie Mellon play against in Men's Tennis match #2 on Friday, March 1st?
 What is the significance level 𝛼 used for?
What instrument does Davie play in 'The Kiltie Band'?
Who is the instructor for Production Mangement in Production Prep: Love and Money?
Where can applicants to the MLT and PhD programs find application support through the School of Computer Science?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where does Touretzky's Competition Programming and Problem Solving take place?
What does the abbreviation 'MTWRF' stand for?
What is the consequence if an individual fails to complete the Form I-9?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon University Libraries' digital resources and services?
What are the time slots of Integration and Approximation?
What are the course names and their respective credit hours for Rounce, Cohon 12757 and Finger 12766?
What is the name of the person who will be working on Lighting Design for Lonely Planet?
What is the purpose of this text?
Where can students find the contact information of their College Liaison in SIO?
 What is the purpose of the example in A.4 about multiple submissions and measured runtimes?
What was the goal of Mach project according to Black, one of Rashid's graduate students?
 What is the goal of incorporating domain knowledge through fundamental speech features in the text?
What additional guidance is available for students pursuing a Master’s degree at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Reynolds teach his course on Introduction to Corpus Linguistics?
What is the course code for Evolution taught by Professor Hinman?
What is the course code for Introduction to Deep Learning taught by Singh and Ramakrishnan?
How many individuals are to be inducted in the first year of the Athletics Hall of Fame?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Mathematics Colloquium 0.0?
 What is the purpose of the Action Attention agent mentioned in the text?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Dr. Rakach for Ph.D. Thesis Research in this semester?
What services does OIE provide for international graduate and undergraduate students at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the days and times of the Scenic Design class?
 Why is it necessary to compute 𝜖𝐶 𝑘 and 𝜖𝑘 on D𝑣2 rather than D𝑡 or D𝑣1?
 What is the architecture used in the proposed contextual end-to-end speech translation approach?
 What is the major limitation of HumanEval and MBPP benchmarks?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:00 PM to 1:50 PM in room A36?
What is the name of the course that focuses on multimedia design for technical and professional communication?
What are some benefits of joining the Tartan Athletics Club?
What is the height of Ava Black?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What are the course titles, days of the week, times, and locations for lecture A on Wednesday from 7:00 PM to 9:50 PM?
What is the location for each course listed in the schedule?
 What were reported as relatively lower κ values for interobserver agreement in other studies?
What is the course code, title, time, and location of the Intermediate Statistics course?
What is MIIS Graduate Student Handbook and where can it be found?
What is the title of Kesden's lecture?
What is the name of the activity that takes place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What are the names of the courses taught by Bannister?
Who are the authors of this piece of text?
What are the days and times for Breaux's Requirements for Information Systems class?
What is the course code and title of the Ph.D. Thesis Defense?
What is the policy regarding consensual intimate relationship between graduate students and undergraduates at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many credits does 'Graduate Research Seminar' have?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Research in Qatar?
What are the courses taught by Christin for Graduate Reading and Research 17997?
How many courses are being offered by this schedule?
What is the location and time of the Cello class?
What kind of initiatives does Carnegie Mellon University provide for its students' mindfulness?
Who are the instructors for the 'Chamber Music Coaching' session?
 What was the focus of the observational study by Huige et al.?
What is the name of Kesden's course and where is it held?
Was it an annual event?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon's career development model being grounded in discipline-specific career development?
What happens if a graduate student commits a first violation while on disciplinary probation?
What convinced Rick to join Microsoft?
Who should students contact for inquiries about Carnegie Mellon University's application and compliance with a certain statement?
What are the requirements for a student who wants to transfer from an LTI degree program to the MLT program?
 What is the benefit of offloading computation to external servers in Android apps?
What is the name of the project option for M.S. Graduate Project at Bain's 18982?
Who did the team play in their ninth match at the Carnegie Mellon Quad?
Who are the instructors for Movement and Dance I and Chorus?
Who will introduce Aditya Agarwal in the SCS Distinguished Lecture?
What are the class timings for Comedy Writing?
 How is Lexicographic Precision related to RL1 evaluation?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What was the final score of the game between Thiel and Carnegie Mellon on Sat, Oct/07?
When do the Production Prep: Mr. Burns: Costume Design class meet?
What are the names of the courses offered by TBA?
What is the title of the course taught by Hakim Bourcart?
Who teaches the Security War Game Simulation class?
What time does the Tap III: Expand Percussive Rhythms class start on a Thursday?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: Mr. Burns?
Who are the instructors for Oboe Studio Performance Class 1.0 A TBA and Bassoon Studio Performance Class 1.0 A M?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
 What percentage of existing improvements did GIDroid automatically rediscover when applied to versions of mobile apps?
What is the 'two strikes' rule in MCDS?
Who teaches Reading and Research: Project Research (Engineering & Public Policy 19797)?
What are the days and times of Wright's classes?
Who are the instructors for Reasoning with Data E and F courses?
What instrument does Wu play at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
 How did the proposed model perform in experimental comparisons using LibriSpeech and Switchboard datasets?
What are the names of the instructors teaching each class?
What is the course name for 67338 in the given text?
Who is the instructor at GB TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses listed in the schedule?
 What is the purpose of BM25 ranking in Task 1?
Where does Aylmer teach Graduate Opera Workshop?
How many references are there for the Office of Research Integrity & Compliance?
 How does FiT5 integrate document text, retrieval features, and global document information?
What areas of language and information technologies do LTI faculty and students investigate?
What day and time do most sessions take place in the given schedule?
Where does the second class take place, and what are its time and duration?
Is there a maximum limit for completing the master’s degree at MCDS?
 How are methods with BM25 scoring expanded with KALE terms?
What is the course code for Materials Science & Engineering 27210?
 How many verbs were compiled in the list mentioned in the text?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the days and times for Perception class?
 What is the benefit of combining RNN-T and AED in automatic speech recognition (ASR)?
When was the Scottish terrier officially recognized as the mascot of Carnegie Mellon University?
According to Rashid, what is important for a long career in computer science?
 How many dialogues were included in the training set?
What is the name of the lecture held by Instructor TBA at Collaborative Research through Projects?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
What are some potential career paths for MCDS graduates?
 What are the five main components of the tool-augmented framework for detecting factual errors?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
When does Khanal F teach his Physics II for Engineering and Physics Students class?
What are the class times and locations for Laudenbach B4?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Caspar, Skibba?
What are the names of all the classes taught by Portnykh?
What are the instructors for 'Independent Study in Humanities Analytics'?
What are the two different time slots for Ozis C R in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What degree did Raj receive from Guindy College of Engineering, Madras (now Anna University, Chennai), India?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Mathematical Studies Algebra II and Matrix Algebra with Applications?
 What is the key challenge in building a single system for recognizing multiple languages?
What are the three courses offered by Larocca in Keyboard Studies (Graduate) for students?
Who is the instructor for F?
 How did the inclusion of Common Crawl, OpenWeb, and Books affect downstream performance?
 What does Raganato et al. (2021) explore in order to improve NMT model performances on low-resource languages?
Who are the instructors of Independent Studies at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the class that Shackleford, Wei teaches at DNM on TBA?
Who is the author of this text?
Does the university offer housing to graduate students?
What is the name of class D that meets on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
Who became the champion of the idea of a floating Department of Computer Science?
Who are the authors and instructors for this dissertation?
What is the name of the handbook where this information can be found?
What are the three areas where students need to show breadth in MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
 What is the significance of using the logarithmic transform in Figure 3?
What is the title of the event held by Yunus Shields?
What are some of Ralf's research interests besides multilingual processing?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What does Rashid like about Captain Jean-Luc Picard from Star Trek: The Next Generation?
How can graduate students check their parking permit status?
What is the location of Wesnak D's class?
What are the names of Mackey's classes?
Who created this page?
What is the name of the handbook mentioned in the text?
What is the main topic of this article?
If I submit my application before the early deadline, do my recommenders also need to submit early?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 7:00 PM to 8:50 PM in GHC 4215?
When is Production Prep: A Little Night Music: Lighting Design held?
Why did Campbell want to study at CMU?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Skarlatos?
Who are the instructors for the Large-Scale Computing in Data Science 12.0 A TR 02:00PM - 03:20PM in 3SC 110 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the URL for course drop/add/withdrawal procedures?
Why are three letters of recommendation needed for doctoral admissions?
What is the location of the ninth event listed in the text?
 What is the main finding regarding the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs in the text?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral): 18.0?
What are the names of the professors teaching Microeconomics III, Macroeconomics II: 6.0, and Information Economics?
What is the location of 05689 Independent Study in HCI - Grad?
When is 'Harmony I' course held and who teaches it?
What are the course codes for Stagecraft classes?
Where is the ECE Graduate Teaching Internship held?
In which page of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook can students find more information about family and dependents resources?
When and where does the course 'Concerto: Virtuosity and Contrast' meet?
What is the URL for the page where students can find information about community housing near the university?
Who is teaching Tech Entrepreneurship and Innovation course?
What kind of resources can students find at the University Libraries?
What is the name of the production preparation course for Lighting Design?
On which date did the Spire Midwest Open take place?
When and where does Collaborative Piano IV take place?
What is the purpose of CMU Alert?
How does ORIC support research at CMU?
What is the title of the seminar listed under 'Current Topics In Privacy Seminar'?
What are the days and times of the Stage Management class?
Where can a student find more information about the SCS25 Kickoff Celebration?
Why is it important to choose a suitable program of study?
According to Henry Hillman, how can Pittsburgh be positioned with this technological breakthrough?
What are the dates and times of Piazza's class?
When and where is Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences held?
What is required for students receiving a stipend, being TAs or planning to work at CMU?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon University’s Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives?
What are the names of the internships mentioned in the text?
Who teaches the Saxophone class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does M.Arch Studio: Praxis II take place?
At what time does Gray A's class start according to the given schedule?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Introduction to Deep Learning taught by Singh and Ramakrishnan on Friday?
Who are the speakers and what is their schedule?
What is the location of Language Technologies Institute (LTI) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the main purpose of studying 'Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing'?
Who teaches Mitchell's class?
Where did the Jekyll island Collegiate take place for Men's Golf?
What should you do if you need to take/retake TOEFL, IELTS and/or GRE for this application?
Who teaches the Directed Study in EPP: Undergraduate course?
What records did Tartans set on the first day of UAA Indoor Championships?
 What are the fine-tuning epochs typically set to for all downstream tasks in BERTBASE on the GLUE benchmark?
How many key offices are there for health, wellness & safety according to the number provided (7.4)?
Can a student take a course outside of the School of Computer Science for their MCDS degree?
Where is Doha, Qatar?
What is the purpose of the Student Academic Success Center's A.2.4.3 Learning Support section?
What is the time schedule of Production Prep: Lonely Planet?
What is the course code for each course?
Where is the search form located on this website?
Where is the search form located on this website?
What is the course name for 21341?
 What is the mean value of PM2.5 mass concentration during the campaign?
Where was the Susquehanna Multi event held?
 What is the percentage reduction in the crack propagation life of Q550E when corroded?
When does Naval Operations and Seamanship class take place?
How many languages have robust language technologies such as search engines, spell checkers or speech recognition?
How can one contact the Language Technologies Institute at CMU?
 What is the focus of the method developed by Tulsky et al. in J. Spinal Cord Med. in 2015b?
What is the course code for Professor DiPietro's course?
What services does the library offer for locating and obtaining specific resources?
What is the name of the center that provides assistance for individuals with disabilities?
 What is used as the final evaluation index in the AVSD module?
What was the result of the Case Western Reserve University meet?
What is the name of the organization that the given contact information belongs to?
 What were the two different models used for text classification in the paper?
What are the days of the week when Design Practicum is offered?
Who is teaching Lighting Production, Sound Design, Media Design, Grown Ups: VAR Directing, Dramaturgy and Production Management?
On which date and time does Men's Golf play against Port City Invitational 'B' Team?
What kind of support does A.2.4.1 offer for oral presentations?
Can I transfer into the MIIS program from another institution?
What is the location of the fifth event in the schedule?
What are the days and times of Fundamentals of Operationalizing AI class?
What is the name of the handbook that provides information about graduate student life at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What task is presented in the paper discussed in the Conclusion & Future Work section?
Who is the instructor for each studio class?
What are the class codes for Molecular Biology and Cancer Biology?
 How does the fatigue life change with increasing crack depth ratio?
 What is the purpose of KILT according to reference [23]?
 What is the goal in learning ft with respect to the source embeddings fs?
What is the main topic of this text?
Who teaches the lecture titled 'Research Training: History' on Friday from 9:00 AM to 9:50 AM?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
What is the title of the course being offered at TBA A R 07:00PM 07:50PM in week A, taught by Singhani?
What city does Instructor TBA G teach in?
Who teaches the course 'Special Topics in Music: acting'?
What are the dates and times of Managing Across Cultures course?
What is the instrument focus of the last music studies studio mentioned in the text?
What is the location of Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) and what are its abbreviations?
What is Longer-than-standard Completion?
What are the days and times of each event?
What are the days and times of all courses that start at 9:30 AM?
What is the class name and location for Band and Choral Arranging in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the final step in completing a Master's thesis?
What is the purpose of Plaidvocates?
Where and when does Pre-Dissertation take place?
 How many of the 19 annotators consider themselves native English speakers?
Who is the instructor of the class that meets in TEP 2611 with Major 70443 Digital Marketing and Social Media Strategy?
What are the three production preparations being offered in this schedule?
What was Nils J. Nilsson awarded for in 2005?
What should graduate students do before invoking formal processes?
What is the URL of the Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
What was the final score of the game between Carnegie Mellon and Rochester?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
In which room is lecture E of Algorithm Design and Analysis held?
What are the dates and times of all classes for Foundations of Programming Languages?
Where is the text set?
 What is the purpose of using a fixed threshold β in the text?
Where is the course 'Piano Pedagogy I' held?
Which university played a final game in women's tennis against Oberlin on February 25?
What are the course codes for courses taught by Kang?
What kind of resources are available for veterans at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can students find more information about Eberly Center support for graduate students?
When do ENGAGE in Service: TBA and ENGAGE in the Arts: TBA courses take place?
What are the course codes for Constructive Logic and Computer Graphics?
What is the name of the course that starts at 1:00 PM on Tuesday and Thursday in room DH 1209?
What does section 4.5 discuss?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this page?
Who is the office manager?
What are the course names and their respective days of the week?
Is there a home event mentioned in the text? If so, how many?
What are the three main services offered by the library for students?
 What is the purpose of Step 1 in the training procedure of DPHuBERT?
Where are Mccarthy and Sooriamurthi's classes held in New York, NY?
 What optimizer is used for training the models?
Who is Kemal Oflazer?
What is an 'I' grade in this context?
What are the services provided by Copying, Printing and Mailing Services?
What are the days and times of Advanced Computational Physics class?
Is the GRE At Home test acceptable?
Is there any information provided about when this event/activity is taking place?
 What should participants do if they want to use additional video data in Track 1?
Who teaches Introduction to Music Technology (self-paced) in this schedule?
What behavior is not tolerated in this program according to the text?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon University's Ethics Hotline?
What happens during End of Semester Evaluation according to the handbook?
Who are the instructors for Apprenticeship and Machine Learning for Public Policy Lab?
What are the days and times of Watchdog Journalism's classes?
What is the function of The WORD according to the given text?
What is mentioned in the text about high standards evolving?
What is the purpose of requesting an amendment to one's education record?
What is the purpose of the JavaScript Model Tracer page mentioned in the text?
What are the dates and times for Costume Design class in Pittsburgh?
 What optimizer is used for training the quantizer?
What are the types of exploratory research projects offered by this institution?
 How long did training take per run?
What is the address and contact information for the Language Technologies Institute?
 How does the high-level controller choose a subgoal according to the temporal coherence in GCHRL?
When is the 'Sustainable Operations' class held by Gong C?
What is the name of the instructor who holds a Ph.D. in Thesis with a focus on 0-99 and their thesis advisor is A?
What is the course title offered on Thursday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What was the name of the competition that Deep Blue won in 1997?
What is Student Information Online (SIO) used for?
Which courses offered by these instructors are related to physics?
Where is Anna Zaniolo from and what high school did she attend?
How can students actively reflect on academic challenges?
What is the 'Recrafting Soft Technologies' course?
What is the main difference between the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook and other resources mentioned in Appendix A?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Fong in room 2612 on Tuesday and Thursday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
Which athlete has a personal best time for 5 kilometers that is under 16 minutes?
How can students obtain their ID cards at the university?
What is CPT and why do international students need to apply for it?
Why is Berliner's DNA unique according to Schaeffer?
 How much improvement did the research show in correlation on the electromagnetic articulography (EMA) dataset?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
What is the topic of the first session in the list?
What is the course registration status?
 What happens to malicious voters in the system according to the results?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Taborga in Software Engineering Management?
When and where is the 'Introduction to Graduate Studies' course held?
What is the name of the instructor who taught Major Studio (Viola) at Harding?
What is the course 'Introduction to Minecraft' about?
When did CMU’s Faculty Senate agree to elevate Department of Computer Science to college status?
 What noise learning experiments are conducted following SOP?
What is the course code for Introduction to Experimental Chemistry?
 What is the total number of pages in the conference proceedings where the research on singing voice synthesis appears?
When does the Music Research Methods class taught by Heath start?
 What was determined by the IASLC 8th edition lung cancer staging system?
When and where does 'Social Web' take place?
 What method is used to solve the backward propagation model (42)-(45) for z(x, t) in the text?
How can a student find their assigned HUB Assistant Director?
 What does purple represent in the color gradient used to indicate the trend of an episode in the Ant Maze task?
How is travel funding provided for students who are not funded by a research project?
What is the course title of MFA Director's Lab?
What should be of passing quality when an instructor awards an 'I' grade?
What are the two main categories of services provided in section 9?
Where and when is the 'Constructing Value(s): Economies of Design' class held?
When does Research Issues in Game Development take place?
What happens if a student fails to complete the Employment Eligibility Verification within 3 business days of beginning work?
What are the three main areas that the university focuses on?
What are the three courses taught by Yaron in the given schedule?
Is it possible for a student to change advisors?
What are the course codes for Experimental Design for Behavioral and Social Sciences, Statistical Computing, Advanced Data Analysis II, Writing in Statistics, Information Theory and Statistics, Interdisciplinary Applied Research, and all three sections of Branson's section?
According to A.3, what are two key offices for health and safety?
 What batch sizes are mentioned in the context of WavLM in Figure 13?
 What is the main task of Information Retrieval (IR)?
What is the course name for the class offered on Friday at 9:00 AM in BH 154A?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Kaestner, Le Goues in Machine Learning?
Where is the contact information for Language Technologies Institute located?
How many teams are mentioned in this text?
What was the course name and instructor for Academic Variant 1-12 A TBA TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Harvilla's Maker Series: Intro to Manual Machining 1.0 course?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
What is the name of the course taught by Aylmer AB?
What does the statement 'Furthermore, Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate and is required not to discriminate in violation of federal, state or local laws or executive orders' mean?
 How does Wang et al. (2020) propose to improve the problem of imbalanced and linguistically diverse training data?
What is the name of the course offered by Professor Pegden in BH 237B?
Does the institution provide assistance for individuals with disabilities?
 How is the objective function of the proposed Im2Sp model represented?
What is the course title and credit hours of the Ph.D. Independent Study course taught by Professor Sawyer?
 What is the purpose of the Factually Augmented Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (Fact-RLHF) algorithm?
What time does the class start for Production Prep: John Proctor: VAR Directing?
When is the event mentioned in this text scheduled to take place?
What are the days and times when 'Market Engineering and Applications' special topics course is held?
What are the operating hours of SafeWalk during regular academic year?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in History?
What is the contact information for the SCS Help Center?
What is the title of Bouamor's Practical Data Science class?
Who can be contacted for inquiries about the Language Technologies Institute?
When does the lecture on The Future of Democracy take place?
 What API is used to score responses and label them as toxic in the toxic generation evaluation?
What were some of Reddy's contributions to operating systems?
How can a student request Academic Coaching at CMU?
 What is one of the concerns mentioned when using Unlimiformer with smaller GPUs or larger models?
What is the location of Production Prep for Sender Lighting, Sound Design, VMD L, and Directing?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
When was Hitech's working prototype completed?
Who was their opponent for the first game they lost at Emory University during UAA Championship?
Who is the instructor for Elective Studio (Composition)?
What are the four ways mentioned in this text for distributing or making available content?
What is required for students studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa if English is not their native language?
What is the course name taught by Hughes on Wednesday from 12:00 PM to 01:50 PM in room MM 203?
 What heuristic does CUTTLEFISH use to switch from full-rank training to low-rank training?
Who is teaching the K class?
What are the course codes and titles offered in the Data Management class?
Who teaches lecture 2 of 'Sign and Development'?
What are the acceptable operating systems that can be used on laptop computers by MS students for accessing university resources and completing course assignments?
 What does the PET framework achieve in terms of generalization to human goals?
Where did the Tartans end their road trip with an 84-75 loss to Chicago on January 31, 2024?
What was the name of the venue where Schepkin performed?
What are the names of all three courses mentioned?
What are the days of the week when 'Translation Workshop III' takes place?
What are the courses offered on Monday at 05:00 PM?
What is the course code for 'Seminar in Music Education'?
 Who led the writing of the study?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Engineering and Public Policy'?
What is the policy for students who are part-time PhD degree holders and want to extend their time to degree limit?
What is the course title of the class held by Andersen, Railing, and Beckmann at DNM DNM?
What are the names of the three courses being offered in Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
Who are the three people listed as B for Elective Studio (Composition), Elective Studio (Bagpipes), and Elective Studio (Jazz)?
What are the topics covered in Strategic Corporate Management?
Who teaches the course 'ETC Practicum Training - Spring'?
What is the first name of the instructor who comes before Frick in this text?
 What is the basis for optimization in training E2E ASR models?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
How does the Student Support Resources team assist graduate students?
Where is the Operating System Design and Implementation class held?
Who is the instructor for Major Instrumental Ensemble 6.0 A TWRF 04:00PM 06:30PM CFA ACH?
What is the course code for Shift Capstone Experience taught by Spirtes?
What is the email address of Mona Diab?
Where can students find support for teaching activities at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many credits do Supervised Reading in Mathematical Physics and Practicum in Physics have respectively?
Where can you find information about athletic and fitness facilities at the university?
Where was the recital held?
What are the names of the design areas for 'Ottone in Villa'?
What are the two courses being offered by Wice in Remediation Engineering?
What happens if an academic integrity violation is committed by a student for the second time?
 What area is extensively discussed in subsection 2.2 and section 4?
What is the role of athletic programs in offering camps and clinics at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the courses offered by Professor Conley?
 What is the concept of arithmetic intensity and how does it influence factorization in neural networks?
Which player's hometown/high school is Doral, Florida?
What is the name of the class taught by George M on TR at 3:30 PM?
What is the purpose of Javascript being required for SCS calendar?
What are the course codes for Thiessen's Cognitive Modeling and Research Communication classes?
What are the locations where classes of 21375 and 21360 are held?
What is the University's policy on withdrawing a degree?
 Why do models of human language need to learn how to recognize patterns?
Who are the authors of the text?
Where does Fernando Diaz work?
What is the level of each class listed in the schedule?
What is discussed in section 1.8 of the text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Introduction to Computer Systems?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
What is the course title of Chin's War and Peace in the Contemporary Middle East?
When and where is the Practicum 0-3 class taking place?
What are the teaching techniques used for Computer Science?
What is the course code for 'Spatial Data Science with ArcGIS Pro'?
 What is the primary objective of Code Optimization Performance-Improving Code Edits (PIE)?
What school did Allie Heyer attend before joining the Tartans?
What is the name of the course taught by Vasishta E?
 How did increasing the vocabulary size impact efficiency and effectiveness in the KALE only scenario?
Where is Beck's course held and what is the title of his course?
When and where does Wu's Elementary Spanish I class take place?
What governs research activities at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What does the experimental results show about DIFUSCO in comparison to previous probabilistic NPC solvers?
What is the course code for Wiener's Intermediate Spanish class?
In which room does Crime, Policing, and the Law: Historical and Contemporary Perspectives take place?
What kind of funding may students receive according to policies set by individual research projects?
Where is the study abroad program located?
What are undergraduate courses?
Where should graduate students consult to find information about financial aid?
What is Venny Ayudiani's academic program?
What are the names of the two Negotiations classes mentioned in the text?
 What statistical models were used in the study to explore the non-linear relationship between AGR and OS?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Millinery I', 'Directors Common Hour', and 'Ear Training 1.0'?
What are the course codes of other classes mentioned in this text?
Where is the Architecture Design Studio: Thesis II/ Independent Project VAR A class held?
What is the topic of conversation for SCS25 Kickoff: A Conversation with Serkan Piantino (CS'04)?
Who are the faculty members of Language Technologies Institute?
Where is the SafeWalk dispatch area located?
When was the second team's game held according to the text?
Who can authorize others to receive a copy of E-Bill through SIO?
 How was the presence of tumor cells in the endothelium-lined vascular lumen defined?
Where and when does Yu's Engineering Optimization without Project take place?
When does Moseley teach 'Optimization for Business' on Monday and Wednesday?
 What post-correction method was applied to Gitksan in the submission?
Who teaches the course 'Environmental Performance Simulation' that starts at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays and Thursdays in room CFA 206A?
How many LTI courses (24 units total) should MIIS-21 students take in one of the following areas of concentration?
 What are the model parameters that need to be estimated in the joint VFO-VT model?
What are the course codes for the three courses that start at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
Why is trust important in an academic community?
What is FERPA and how does it relate to student privacy rights?
 How does GlobalBench aim to promote improvement in language technology for all speakers?
How many courses are listed in this text?
What is the name of the course taught by Hsieh and its location?
Who teaches the classes starting at 6:30 PM and ending at 9:20 PM on Monday?
Which courses are taught by Professor Hanington in this schedule?
 What are three observations that can be made from the experiment results in Table 2?
When does the lecture of 'Policies of Wireless Systems' take place on Tuesday, Thursday?
Who teaches Design Practicum on Monday at 02:00 PM in room TBA?
 What percentage of benchmarks saw improvements in execution time and memory with GIDroid?
What is the course code for Introduction to Biomedical Imaging?
What are the names of the three elective studios mentioned in this text?
 According to Figure 3a, which groups are among the most frequently targeted in the COBRACORPUS?
What is the course code for MSCF Business Communication II?
Who is the instructor for 'Supervised Reading in Classical Physics' and 'Supervised Reading in Quantum Physics'?
What is the instrument being studied at each of these studios?
What is the purpose of the weight-training equipment available at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the names of the two people who will be working on stage management for 'A Doll's House'?
What are the names of the courses offered in Sound Design?
What should students do if they need to take a leave of absence for medical or academic reasons?
What is the purpose of the School of Computer Science's online application?
What is the name of the libraries mentioned in section 6.9?
Where are all these courses located?
In which location does Badev teach Political Economy?
What are the expectations of SCS students who want to take courses outside their program during summer?
What is the credit hour and meeting time for each class in this schedule?
 What type of model is adopted in the text?
What does 'Erol's Theorem' state?
 Why is F × (P − 1) × E × C used in the context of gp(c, f )?
 What is the measure of labeling cost in the task of DPAR?
 How many memory tokens are empirically set when processing input signals?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What is Pittsburgh Mayor Luke Ravenstahl's view on this pilot project?
When does Moura's Introduction to Computer Systems class take place?
What is the duration of Independent Study 95920 B TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How did the aerosol number concentration vary during the pollution episode?
What is the course title of the class held by Gkioulekas at A W 03:30PM 04:50PM?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Chinese Calligraphy?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study in Dance?
Who is the instructor for Enterprise Data Analytics course?
Who did Carnegie Mellon play against in their last game before November 4, 2023?
What does the university prohibit?
What is the name of the instructor for the Major Studio (Guitar) class?
What is the location of Language Technologies Institute?
Who is the instructor for Lighting Production in Production Prep: Love and Money?
Where can you find contact information for Language Technologies Institute?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
Who are the authors of this text?
What did Berliner start working on for his thesis at CMU?
What are the names of the two preparation shows that take place on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday from 11 AM to 3 PM?
What are the names of the courses taught by Sowell?
What is the name of the course that Quesenberry, Mertz, Moussawi, Hagan, Poepping, Instructor TBA J and Tu have taken with Heimann B1 as their instructor?
 How did the byte-based and IPA-based proposed models compare in terms of scores?
Where and when does Strategic Decision Making take place?
What is the role of Carnegie Mellon University in supporting students seeking internships?
When is 'Foundations of Drama II' held?
What is the website for Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI) at Carnegie Mellon University?
In which room does Helgeson teach his class?
Do applicants applying to MCDS need to submit scores from an English proficiency exam taken within the last two years?
What were the dates of the matches mentioned in the fifth to eighth texts?
Who is the instructor of Weight Training 69102?
 What is the purpose of the Hello Robot Stretch platform used in the real-world component of the benchmark?
What does LTI stand for in the context of the handbook?
What is the protocol for dealing with missing students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What technique is used to avoid data sparsity problems in N-gram models?
 What is the purpose of the HCChinese dataset mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the instructor who holds a Ph.D. in Independent Study?
When does Douglas teach his class?
How can PhD students get access to the LTI computer cluster?
 What were the two random effects in the LME modeling for transcription time?
What is the course title of Arana G's Terrorism in Sub-Saharan Africa?
What is the course code for Fundamentals of Semiconductor Devices?
 What is the WER achieved by using the ASR transcript produced by the 4 best ASR models combined?
What is the name of the course being held by Dunn at PH 226A?
What are the credits for Smith's course in Market Research in the Entertainment Industry?
When and where does the Control of Grid-Connected Machines & Converters course take place?
 What is the value of chrF2++/cost for GPT-4 in the table?
What are the course codes for Harvilla's two Special Topics courses?
What are the days and times of MUD Urban Ecology?
What is the instrument of Major Studio for Rusinek, Shields and Goeres, Shields?
Where is the entrance of the University Police Department located?
What is the name of the instructor for the I class?
Where is the student studying for Independent Study in Operations Management or Operations Research?
What are the three units of Scenery in this text?
What are the days and times of the classes listed?
What are the days and times of John Proctor's Production Prep classes?
What are the rules regarding external employment/consulting for LTI students?
When is the deadline to register for SCS25 Schedule of Events?
What is the course code for 'Finite Elements in Mechanics I'?
What is the title of Glymour's Seminar on the History of Causal Inference?
Who are the instructors for this course in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the waiver for students who have prior professional experience?
 Why does the text mention the use of I (Scaled Identity Covariance), M (MCMC), L (Laplace), and V (NGVI) in the experiments?
How did Rashid's positive attitude affect others at Carnegie Mellon University?
How can students request an enrollment verification from Enrollment Services?
 What does the conclusion mention as a promising direction for future research based on the proposed method?
What is the course code for Introduction to Lighting Technology?
What are the names of the courses offered in Stage Management?
What is the location of Gates and Hillman Center?
What is the definition of a 'course' according to the given text?
What kind of issues does the University prohibit according to the Sexual Misconduct Policy?
What is the name of the course that teaches Professional Essentials for the Percussionist?
When and where are the Fundamentals of Software-Defined Networking course held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How did chess help Berliner in his life?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What is the purpose of taking classes offered by the language support team from the beginning of the first semester?
Who is teaching the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Stage Management' in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does The American Railroad: Decline and Renaissance in the Age of Deregulation take place?
What are the dates and times of class 82889?
What is the course code for MSAII Independent Study?
Where is the class 'User-Centered Research and Evaluation C' held?
 What is the initial learning rate used for NER optimization?
When and where are the media design classes held?
Who should students interested in taking advantage of this opportunity contact?
What are the course codes and their respective days, times, and locations for Kurland's Special Topics: Designing Smart and Healthy Systems class?
Which type of event is highlighted in bold on this calendar?
 Why is it computationally infeasible to obtain the exact solution to Equation 3?
Where was The Savannah Invitational held for Women's Golf?
Who teaches Film Exhibition at NM Los Angeles?
What is the course code for Maker Series: Intro to Modern Making taught by Harvilla on Friday from 12:00PM-01:50PM in ANS B10, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code, title, days of the week, time offered, and instructor for Special Topics: Atmospheric Nanoparticles and Climate?
 What determines whether to end the beam search?
What is the purpose of the 'Cite' button in the given text?
What is the name of Woloshyn's course?
 What kind of features are utilized by most of the previous work, except Liu and Chen (2021), in feature usage?
What year does the text refer to?
What is the name of the course taught by Bjorndahl E4?
What does LTI stand for?
What are Eric P. Xing's research areas?
What are the days and times of Keyboard Studies class?
What are the names of the instructors for the Structure and Characterization of Materials course?
What is the course code for Foundations of Drama I?
What is the purpose of MCDS Program FAQ?
What are the main categories of programs offered by the university's School of Computer Science?
When does 'Applied Data Analysis 2' take place?
What are the names of the two people who have meetings in this text?
What is the purpose of the newsletter sent by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
What is the role of Academic Coaching in helping students succeed academically?
What is the page number where this information can be found in the handbook?
Where is Career & Professional Development for Engineering Masters Students B held?
 What is the function of a phonetic embedding function as described in the text?
What is the name of the course that starts at 7:00 PM and ends at 8:20 PM?
 How does GILL outperform FROMAGe in terms of image handling capabilities?
What are some departments included in the Division of Student Affairs?
 What is the training loss used in this case?
Where is McGhee's location for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual) located?
Who are the people listed under Tice L and Tkocz M?
Where does the 'Policy in a Global Economy' class take place?
What is the name of the ensemble that will perform Brass Literature and Repertoire?
Which instrument is taught at each studio?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
What are the locations of all courses mentioned in this text?
 Which group showed a higher tendency towards requesting authors to justify their compute budget?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
Which player is from Park City, Utah?
 In over-determined cases, how is it possible to estimate the speaker images?
Can I defer admission if I am admitted to a program?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
What is the course code for API Design?
Where was the NCAA Championships held?
What is cross-registration and who is eligible for it?
When and where does the Fall ETC Practicum Training take place?
What are the days and times of the 'Financial Statements & Analysis for Architectural Engineering' class?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at NSH 1305 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course that teaches special topics at Integrated Innovation Institute?
Who suggested the name 'School of Computing' for the new school?
Where was this research conducted?
What is required for international students seeking an internship/co-op or signing an offer contract?
What is the policy regarding external internships for students?
 What is the gold standard against which the cognitive plausibility of LMs is evaluated?
What is the time and location of the Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Emerging Markets course?
What are the minimum number of units required to complete the Master of Language Technologies degree?
Which option is a traditional way of sharing content?
Who are the College Liaisons and what do they do?
What are the course codes, instructors, and meeting times for Elementary Korean I (WEH 6423) and Elementary Italian I (PH 225B)?
What is the name of the author listed as Kush OA?
What are the current records of the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
Is there a Graduate Student Handbook at MIIS?
What is the contact information for coordinator at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the performance by Ojeda's Elective Studio (Voice)?
 Can the content refer to less than 15 items?
What is the instructor's name for Directed Research: 1-48?
 How is the learning rate adjusted in the text?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Engineering Design, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship'?
 How does UNSSOR address the frequency permutation problem?
Where can I find more information about the MSAII program curriculum and requirements?
What are the names of the teachers who will be teaching Music History I, Music History III and Piano Pedagogy II?
What are the academic policies of LTI mentioned in this text?
 What is the purpose of generating unique user profiles on each platform, as mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of the Student Academic Success Center at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the duration of Independent Studies that last from 1 to 24 days?
When does Data Center Computing take place?
 What is the purpose of employing a regularization term in KALE?
How many credits does Introduction to Psychology: 9.0 introduction to Psyc have?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Formal Methods and Quantum Machine Learning?
What is the phone number for Language Technologies Institute?
When does 'Yoga for Musicians' meet?
What is the name of the course that teaches about drug addiction?
 What is the purpose of dividing the main loss by the support loss in Figure 22c?
What are the days and times for DC Fellowship Practicum I?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:00AM on Tuesday and Thursday in PCA 231?
Where and when was the course 'Steep by Steep: Investeagation into Tea Culture' held?
Who is the instructor for Elective Studio (Composition)?
What are the names of the two classes that meet in the evening at GHC?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching MCS Interdisciplinary PhD Internship?
How tall is Kate Bergan?
How can students get more information about the accommodation process and ask questions at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who is teaching the Dissertation Writing and Pre-Dissertation Prospectus course at DNM in Pittsburgh?
What is the time for Production Prep: Lorca Scenic Design E?
What is the role of the granting program or department in determining if early degree certification is allowed?
Name one additional university resource mentioned in section 6.
 What topic does the work of Chantal Amrhein and Rico Sennrich focus on?
What is the name of the first parallel general resolution theorem prover that was developed by Dr. Clarke and his students?
Who is the instructor for Wolfe's class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course taught by Professor England at WEH 5304?
Which studio specializes in Chamber Music and what are its initials?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the days and times when each course taught by Leoni takes place?
What are some links and connections available through the Veterans and Military Community website?
 What does the formulation discussed in the text encourage hr to do?
What is the minimum total iBT score for a successful applicant?
What is the name of Poepping's Special Topics - Capstone course?
What is the name of Lear's class and when does it meet?
What is the name of the instructor for Aylmer AB's course?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Gauntner in CUC AR 254?
What is the course name for 53714 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When does Sound Recording take place?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching the Topics in Second Language Acquisition: Second Language Pragmatics and Soviet Futures: Revolutionary Design courses?
What are the names of the teachers teaching 'Build Your Own Breadboard Computer', 'Steep by Steep: Investigation into Tea Culture', and 'They Came as Romans: Roman Civilization 360'?
 How is the cell temperature (Tcell) approximated in the text?
What is the instructor for Production Management with Mr. Burns?
When does the sixth event occur?
What instrument is taught at the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Bassoon?
 What form of data augmentation is applied to the sequences produced by the embedding layer in the text?
What is the location of 'Cantlon'?
Who teaches Major Vocal Performance Ensemble at DNM Pittsburgh?
Which university clinched a share of UAA championship and NCAA tournament bid on February 24?
 In which year was the Europarl paper published?
Where is the article published?
Where can I find information about the requirements for graduate courses to be considered an approved qualifying course?
What is the purpose of the Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow (TLT) program at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of publishing a campus security report by Carnegie Mellon University?
What kind of degree does MIIS offer?
 What models were used for WavLM and BART?
What happens if a student fails to get permission from the Director for transfer credit?
What are the topics covered in Ethics and Artificial Intelligence?
Can a student in the MCDS program miss a course requirement or capstone project commitment due to job interview travel?
 What are the characteristics of the WavLM model that are discussed in Figure 13?
What is the purpose of The HUB Student Services Center?
What happens if FERPA rights are violated?
 How were the κchem values calculated?
 What type of assays were assessed in the EQA feasibility study set up by the FLUCOP consortium?
Who teaches AutoCAD 3.0 in DNM DNM at TBA?
What is the course name for 57611?
What is the name of the Locomotion Seminar class?
What is the name of the student who studied Major Studio (Piano) at Schepkin B?
Where is the Proseminar in Transnational History held?
 How many prompt types does the P3 dataset contain?
What are the days and times of the lectures for Parallel and Sequential Data Structures and Algorithms?
Which team had a better record in the UAA conference: Carnegie Mellon or Case Western Reserve?
Who teaches Advanced Database Systems at CMR F305 in Kigali, Rwanda?
 What is the key focus of the fairness component in Task 2 approaches?
How many units are required for degree attainment according to section 4.2?
What is the name of the event listed as 57925?
What are the names of all courses listed in this text?
What is the course 'Topics in Modern Arabic Language, Literature & Culture: Cinema in the Arab World' about?
What is mentioned in section A.2.3 according to the given text?
What is the course name for Peduto FF's class?
 What does Figure 4 depict in terms of model comparison?
 What is the main focus of the study described in the text?
What were Rick's two conditions for joining Microsoft?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study in MT Literature and Repertoire and Sound Design?
What are the days and times for the course 'Acoustics of the Piano 3.0 A M 02:00PM 02:50PM CFA KRESGE'?
Who were the teams that played to a 1-1 draw on October 29, 2023?
At what time does Directing II: In the Studio start in Room 314 on Tuesday, Thursday?
What is the name of the class held at WQE ST B on Monday-Friday from 07:00PM to 10:00PM?
Where does Vania Taylor teach at 12:00 PM on the given day?
 Why does the VLM have a propensity to hallucinate object positions, particularly in outdoor environments?
 What type of models are the attacks in the text most effective on?
Who did Shafi work with in her research on pseudorandom number generators?
What kind of discrimination is prohibited by the University?
Who teaches the course on HOT Compilation?
Where is the 'Creative and Dramatic Writing for Engineers' class held?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What is the course code and class time for Designing Human Centered Software?
What is the location of Shields, Van Hoesen Advanced Music Studies Studio?
 In which month are the dust column concentrations of MERRA-2 higher than those of GRASP/Component dust retrieval over the BOB region?
 What effect did KALE have on the size of the index in disk?
Who are the instructors at Aronson JJ's institution?
 What is the focus of the speech summarization system proposed in the fifth text?
Does the MCDS degree program provide financial aid, tuition waivers or scholarships to graduate students?
 What category does the baseline method Concorde belong to?
What is the name of the class being offered at PCA on W from 5:00 PM to 5:50 PM in room PCA 305?
What are the days and times when Consumer Driven Composition for Contemporary Media is held?
What are the course codes for Business Administration 45705 Fundamentals of Business and Data Driven Decision Making?
 How can the issue of GPU memory exceeding be alleviated in PAR?
How can students apply for a waiver of the University's health insurance plan?
What is the difference between the two options regarding the total cost of tuition?
What is the name of Independent Study 90941 taught by Instructor TBA?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 10:00 AM on Monday in room HH B131?
What is the relationship between Carnegie Mellon University and international students?
What are the course codes and names of the two courses listed?
 What is the primary outcome studied in the research on outcomes after hand and upper extremity transplantation?
What is the course code for 'Dramaturgy 5: Dramaturgy in Translation'?
 What was the inflection point for AGR in relation to OS according to the study?
What is the name of the school that has an official Facebook page for its athletics program?
What is the course code for 'Programming R for Analytics'?
What are the potential job opportunities after completing the Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores (PDEEC)?
What are some ways students can connect with the LTI?
 What dataset is mentioned as an example where using reciprocal rank might obscure unjudged relevant items?
What services does Carnegie Mellon offer for copying and printing?
What is the date of the Tiger Invitational?
Who is teaching the 'Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering' course in room WEH 5310 at 9:00 AM on Wednesday?
Which music studies studio focuses on composition?
What is the name of the course that starts at 7:00 PM on Wednesday in room GHC 5222?
What are Carnegie Mellon University's three primary goals according to its mission statement?
What are the course codes for The Jewish Peoples: A Global History and Medieval Science, Magic, and Wonders of Nature?
What does QPA stand for?
Where can students find additional information about the Maternity Accommodation Protocol?
Which department provides transportation assistance for students who need help getting around campus?
Where should applicants check if their application and supporting documents are complete before the final deadline?
What are the names of Erdmann's classes on Thursday?
 What scenario was reproduced to show the Convergence of FEDEPTH family on Cifar10?
What instrument does Advanced Music Studies Studio offer classes for in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the class times for Studio (Harp) and Elective Studio (Cello)?
 How is ToM modeled in the language-learning agents in the text?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
 What is the common goal for the evaluation environment according to the text?
What are the days and times of Special Topics: Trustworthy AI Autonomy?
Is it discouraged for students to have consensual intimate relationships under the policy?
In which room does Sleator teach Competition Programming I (5.0) on Wednesdays from 7:00 PM to 9:50 PM?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the text?
What is the name of the instructor for the class 'Special Topics in Literature & Culture: Russian & Soviet Science Fiction'?
What is the course name for Yang's lecture?
What are the two courses offered by Advanced Physiology?
 What is the significance of the attention map in the proposed model compared to the baseline model?
What are the names of the students listed in alphabetical order?
Where can students find the contact information of their College Liaison in SIO?
What is the relevance of the Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students for graduate students?
What is the name of the course that teaches about Blockchain Fundamentals?
What are the course codes for Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems and its instructor's name?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What kind of resources do the libraries offer?
When is Introduction to Architectural Robotics offered by Bard and what are the class details?
What are the class names and their respective days for the classes that meet at HOA 107 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How does ORIC assist with conflicts of interest in research at CMU?
What time does Statistical Graphics and Visualization class start on Monday?
What is the purpose of the website?
What are the days and times of the classes in the given schedule?
Where can you find more information about the research interests of Lei Li?
Who teaches Introduction to Accounting at 11:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What did Traub do to diversify the department's funding?
Where was the Women's Golf event held?
What is the phone number for Associate Director of Athletics, Sara Gauntner?
When will applications for the MCDS program open?
Where was the first meet held?
 What is the purpose of employing pseudo-labeling in the model training process?
When do the Production Prep: Macbeth: Dramaturgy class meet?
What should I do if I am experiencing financial hardship and need a fee waiver?
Where is the university located?
What are the dates and times of each production preparation session for Lonely Planet?
What are the names of the instructors listed in this text?
Where can one find contact information about MIIS?
What is the purpose of section 5.3 in this text?
 When was Bohemian Rhapsody released as a single in the United Kingdom?
What is the course code for Urban Design Studio IV?
What is the name of the person who teaches Audiovisual Composition class?
What is the location of A2 F 05:00PM 08:00PM CMU REMOTE?
What is the protocol Carnegie Mellon University follows when responding to alleged violations of academic integrity?
 What data is used to demonstrate the US2ST systems in the experiments section of the text?
Who are the instructors for Artist Diploma Recital 0.0 A4 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Music Education Thesis?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:00 AM to 8:50 AM in room HOA A10?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
What are the locations of Pennsylvania Padhye's classes?
What are the names of the courses taught by each student?
What is the name of the ensemble that will be performing on Friday at 7:00 PM?
Where can students find information about public health and safety requirements at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where was UAA Championships held?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: A Doll's House: VAR Directing?
In which room does the lecture for 'Logic and Proofs' start at 10:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
 How many hand-crafted rules are included in the transitive KB?
What is the course code for Graduate Reading and Research?
How many events are included in the Tartan Women's Track and Field season?
 What percentage of participants perceived that correcting an OCR output was faster than typing the transcription from scratch?
What is the ethical responsibility of each student in any presentation, creative work or research?
 What is the main reason for the significant improvement shown in the multihop QA task with FLARE?
What are some ways students can connect with the LTI?
What is the time and location of lecture 4 for course 15213?
 What procedure is followed to predict using GPT-3 and BLOOM-176B in the text?
Who should send their green ideas for promoting environmental practices in Athletics?
 What is the purpose of CodeBERTScore?
 What is the purpose of the survey mentioned in the text?
Who is the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Piano BA in Foundations of Pedagogy in Music Education?
What is the goal of cultivating a transformative university community?
Who is Scott E. Fahlman?
What are the three forms of support funding for enrolled students according to the text?
 What are the three components of conventional cascaded S2ST models mentioned in the text?
In which room and at what time is the Modern Languages Independent Study taking place?
What does the graphic feature of Carnegie Mellon's mascot represent?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
When and where are Designing Human Centered Software classes held at Carnegie Mellon University?
In which rooms do the following instructors teach: Aylmer, Gruber, Spacagna, Teadt, Schepkin, Chiu, Shields, Van Hoesen, Cardenes, van der Sloot, Wu, Harding, Premo, Williams, Howard, Ferla, Almarza, McGhee, Dealmeida, Rusinek, Thompson, Shields, Goeres, Defade, Houlik, and Kush?
What are the focus areas for Year 4 (In Portugal) and Year 5 (In Portugal) in this program?
What is the title of Breaux's lecture?
What are the meeting times and locations of all courses offered by Aldrich, Garrod, and Lacomis?
What is the name of the institution that offers Independent Study in Conducting?
 What were participants asked to do in terms of proposing a model?
What are the names of the speakers for the course 'E W'?
What are the teaching methodologies discussed in Youngs' class 82795 Ideologies of Critical Language Awareness?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 8:15 PM to 9:30 PM, taught by Markovitz?
What is the purpose of the Eberly Center's support for graduate students?
What are the days and times for Attitudes and Persuasion class?
 Who are the authors of the paper on Scaling laws for neural language models?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
What does IIS stand for in the context of this handbook?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
What is the course code for 'Psychology of Prejudice'?
What is the title of the course taught by Rawn at CMU REMOTE in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When does the Introduction to Computer Architecture class take place?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study 1-12 A and Crawford in the text?
What is the title of the course taught by Hovis, Stump, Turnshek, Willard, and Offner at 12:30 PM on Tuesdays?
Where does the Independent Study in HCI - METALS VAR A course take place?
Who is the player from Chantilly, Virginia?
Which office provides support for graduate students' health, wellness, and safety needs at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the purpose of the study mentioned in the text?
Where and when is the Sports Technology course held?
What is the name of the person who teaches Woodwind Methods class?
How many departments are represented by graduate students at CMU?
Who are the authors listed in this text?
What is the credit hours for each course at thematics 2.0?
 How does the model FROMAGe perform compared to CLIP in all settings?
 What is the purpose of the custom embedding network in ORCA?
 What is one advantage of the Plan module of PET in comparison to GPT?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Mani in this schedule?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Science and Science Fiction'?
What does a student need to do to start using Zotero?
What is the course code for 'Service Design'?
What are the sharing options for the CMU Soccer Field information?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What is the name of the institution that offers Integrated Innovation courses in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the Veterans and Military Community website at CMU?
Where can students find more information about Cross-college and University registration at CMU?
What are the days and times of the Advanced Topics in Analysis class?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
 What is the purpose of the TAC module in the proposed model?
What are Christopher Dyer's roles and research areas?
What are the course codes of the courses offered by Grama?
Where can students find information about how Carnegie Mellion University applies Title IX?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered by Sullivan at WEH 4623?
 How is the latency of the system defined?
What does 'M' in Flute I class timing stand for?
What is the course name and instructor for the class that starts at 10:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday in room EDS 125?
How many classes are there in this schedule?
What are the names of the courses that offer studies on 'AI & Art: Can Machines Tell Our Stories?' and 'Introduction to Film Studies'?
What are the class times and locations of Object Oriented Programming in JAVA 12.0?
 In the Values, Rights, and Duties Generation process, what does GPT-4 prompt to generate for each situation?
How many days of leave can a student take during the course of the semester?
What is the duration of the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Piano Maintenance) course?
What should graduate students do if they cannot reach an informal resolution for academic or non-academic issues?
What are the days and time slots of the 'Special Topics in ICT: Advanced Quantitative Financial Analytics and Algorithmic Trading' class?
 What is visualized in Figure 3 regarding the predictions of DACS and DACS+PAC models?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 05:00PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and lasts for 6.0 credit hours?
What is the course code for Introduction to Film Production?
When was the decision made to adopt a Scottish terrier as Carnegie Mellon's official mascot?
Who are the authors of this text?
What does MCDS stand for?
 How many examples were in the training set and test set for the named entity recognition (NER) task?
Who took the photo of William 'Red' Whittaker standing outside the National Robotics Engineering Center at Carnegie Mellon University?
 According to the text, why does the same phenomenon of overfitting not happen under the UAS setting of STAC/MOL?
What is the name of the instructor teaching the course 'Production Management'?
 What is the main drawback of self-training based on pseudo-labels for unsupervised domain adaptation?
What is the course code for Professor Presto's course?
 In the acknowledgements section, which grants supported the PSC Bridges2 and NCSA Delta?
What are the requirements to apply for this program?
What are the time slots for each course in the schedule?
How can working with LTI benefit a company's work development?
What was the date of the women's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Southern N.H.?
 Why is the ability to handle diverse human speech crucial for AI systems according to the text?
What does 'OB' stand for in the context of this text?
 How does post-editing impact translation quality?
What are the names of the classes taught by Huang?
What time does the course 'New Pedagogies: Material Regeneration' start?
What is the course name and instructor for the class that starts at 9:00 AM on Monday in room DH 5310?
Who should students contact for questions about student privacy rights, FERPA or filing a complaint?
 From which continent did we receive 13.8% of responses?
 How are the errors in MQTTS gradually rectified as the model capacity increases?
What kind of personality does Berliner have according to Palay?
What is the Escort Service offered by Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days, times, location, and instructors for class A4 TBA - TBA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can students request to have other LTI courses with a group engineering project component added to the list of acceptable substitute courses?
What is the role of the Assumption of Risk & General Release forms in protecting Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the two types of Corporate Strategy courses offered by Lee in this schedule?
Does the university publish an annual campus security and fire safety report?
How can students make an appointment with a Language Development Specialist?
What is the name of the organization where Klatzky conducted their research?
How many letters of recommendation should I submit if the admissions committee requires three?
What is the name of the class that teaches Strategic Management and Innovation?
What is the purpose of the MCDS program according to the text?
Who else developed similar ideas about model checking?
 How does point cloud learning differ from 2D computer vision tasks in terms of domain generalization?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Topics in Chinese Language, Culture and Society?
What are the names of all cities where the instructors are located?
When and where does the Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction class take place?
Who teaches Structural Design?
What happens if a student is exempt from a required course due to prior courses or experience?
 What is the purpose of training the embedder before fine-tuning the model body?
What is the Statute of Limitations in Extended or Longer-than-Standard Completion?
What is the course title, credit hours, instructor, and location of the M.S. Research 1-48 course?
What are the names of the other courses taught by the same instructor on Saturday and Sunday at different times?
 What is the relative reduction in Character Error Rate (CER) achieved by the state-of-the-art systems on FLEURS over prior work?
Who did Chicago play against on Fri, Feb/02?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
 What is the validation accuracy (%) for the SI&FD model with VGG-19 Params.?
 Where did the community cluster of influenza A(H3N2) virus infection with reduced susceptibility to baloxavir occur?
 What conditions are set for the model output xi w.r.t. the model parameter alpha?
 How is the sentence-level uncertainty calculated?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
Who was one of the faculty members hired by Joe Traub during his first year as department head?
What other organizing activities has Dr. Reddy participated in?
Are MIIS students allowed to switch tracks after beginning their first semester at CMU?
When and where is the 'Progress Reviews V' course held?
What degree did Dr. Newell earn from Stanford University?
 What is the purpose of the language family direction table mentioned in the text?
 How is GC-IMS technology helpful in distinguishing volatile components and isomers?
Where was the annual awards banquet for the Carnegie Mellon University Department of Athletics held?
What are the course codes, titles, days, times, and locations of the courses taught by Crawford?
What are the class timings for Music 57018 Double Bass Studio Performance Class?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study (A TBA - DNM DNM) in POS A35?
What are the three classes being offered at PCA on R day from 12:30 PM to 1:20 PM?
What is the course code for Proseminar in Entrepreneurial Leadership?
Where is the institute located?
Who can obtain an ID card from The HUB?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
Who is Schaeffer according to the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Statistics and Data Science course?
What are the policies regarding pass/fail grades and audit in MCDS?
When is the Music and Technology Performance/Thesis class offered at CFA A6 in Pittsburgh?
What are Louis-Philippe Morency's research areas?
Who are the instructors conducting the lecture at CMB 3046 in Doha, Qatar?
What are the days and times when Artificial Intelligence System Design is offered?
What is the name of Sullivan's class and what are its meeting times?
 How many mentions are in the ReVerb45k dataset?
What types of activities are available for participants and spectators at Carnegie Mellon's Athletics Department?
 What is the SICSF task described in the text?
Can I work on a master's degree part time?
What are the policies regarding definition of transfer credit versus course exemption in LTI Academic Polices?
 What is the initial value of p in HILL?
Who are recommended to write letters of recommendation according to this text?
What is the location of Spacagna's advanced music studies studio?
What is the location of the Language Technologies Institute at CMU?
What is the course code for History of Black American Music?
What are the names of the two graduate recitals for piano in this text?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
 Why is MBR considered a powerful method in NLP?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Wednesday at 5:00 PM in room HBH 2011?
During their second year in Pittsburgh, what kind of studies will students be engaged in?
Which types of disabilities are supported by The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How does the HomeRobot stack enable the benchmarking of individual components?
What is the name of the event where all swimmers compete together in a race?
What is the name of Shen's class at 12:00 PM?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Introduction to Modern Chemistry II' and 'The Illusion and Magic of Food'?
How can one share this information on social media platforms?
 What type of particles were mainly accumulated during the haze episode?
What are the days and times that the course 'Production Prep: Lorca: Sound Design' is held?
What are the guidelines for assigning and changing grades at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What was the outcome of the evaluation of CodeBERTScore across four programming languages?
 How is the performance variation across languages per task represented?
 How is the rank of the CP decomposition restricted?
 Why was the experiment conducted with up to 4 V100 GPUs only?
What should be included in your resume for MCDS application?
Who teaches the Yoga for Musicians class?
 What special language embeddings does Zhu et al. (2020a) incorporate into the self-attention mechanism?
What position did they finish in at the UAA Championships?
What are the days and times when the 'Insects and Robots' course is held?
Can you use the information from this calendar to plan your schedule?
 What is the purpose of the Fitness section in the framework?
Who are the instructors mentioned in this text?
What is the relationship between the given date and the mentioned semester?
What is the composition of the team in the SMART program?
 How long did it take to complete the execution on the 24-core Intel 13900k processor?
What are the class names and locations for Bartos's classes?
What is the policy regarding academic integrity at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of recording non-Carnegie Mellon and cross-registration program course information on a student's transcript?
 According to the text, what possible downside could more context have on rewriting methods?
What information can be found in the Title IX webpage?
Where should students go to understand tuition payments and options?
Where can you find the contact information for the Language Technologies Institute?
Why do they discourage the use of 'TOEFL ITP Plus for China'?
Who are the instructors for 57208 Music Studio and 57234 Performance for Composers?
What are the days and times of Biochemistry I class?
 What are the four levels of instruction complexity in the OUTDOOR task?
What is the name of the internship for ECE graduate teaching internship from 1-18 A?
 What is the value of k used in the kNN-LM model for taking the top nearest neighbors?
Where did Edmund Melson Clarke study under Robert Constable?
What is the MSAII program's policy on sexual harassment and assault?
 What approach is focused on in order to mitigate the task interference?
Who should international students consult if they are considering completing their degree requirements early or moving from an undergraduate to a graduate student classification?
What is the name of the instructor for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2) Directing?
When and where are the Stage Management classes held?
What was announced on January 19, 2017?
What is the course title of the second class listed in the schedule?
What is the course code for the 'Corporate Capstone Project: Industry Research Project'?
What should students do if they want more information about Language Support Orientation?
When and where does MSCF Business Communication II D take place?
What are the names of the elective studios listed in the text?
Where is the instructor for Special Topics in Literature & Culture: Russian & Soviet Science Fiction located?
 How many masses are used in the multi-mass models to model vocal fold motion with high precision?
 How does an RNN-T model differ from a CTC model?
 What was the focus of the mesoscale modeling study by Wang et al.?
What is the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in Digital Transformation?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon University’s Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives?
What is the mission of the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion?
What is the course code for 'Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences B'?
Where is Gesling Stadium located?
What is the School of Computer Science's role in providing printers for students?
 How is the estimation residual denoted in the text?
What is the role of Ph.D. Program Coordinator in SCS?
What are the course codes for 'Introduction to Computing for Creative Practice' and its sections?
How many instructors have 'TBA' in their names?
What kind of leave can students take according to this text?
Where does Bohman teach and what subject does he/she teach?
Where was the event held?
 What linguistic tool was used to extract words belonging to specific psycho-social categories for hedge detection?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
What does the university believe about individual and collective well-being?
 Why can essentialist beliefs be harmful?
 What is the name given to the proposed method in the context of speech enhancement and separation?
What is the purpose of the section on 'Definition of transfer credit versus course exemption'?
What are the instructors' names for each course mentioned in the text?
Where and when does Coulson teach 'Race, Nation, and the Enemy'?
What is the course code for 'Programming Language Pragmatics'?
Where can international students learn more about the Curricular Practical Training process?
What program does Carnegie Mellon offer to enhance student-athletes' performance?
Where and when does Foundations of Computational Data I take place?
Who is Hans Berliner?
What are the time slots for Sound classes?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the Production Preparation Project Manager course?
Where are all these classes held?
Where and when does the lecture on The History and Practice of Economic Statecraft take place?
Who is the instructor for Rooney C's class?
 What is the title of the paper that discusses a gamified mobile app platform for building multiple-domain question-answering datasets?
When and where is Cultural Roots: Chinese Language & Culture for Heritage Learners being held?
 What are the three settings mentioned in the text where online studies on counterstatements are conducted?
What is the difference between an SCS course and a regular 12-unit course?
When does Introduction to Translation take place?
Where is the course on Parallel and Concurrent Algorithms held?
What time does Sahoo start working on Production Prep: Lonely Planet: Production Management C?
What is the course code for Quantum Mechanics I?
What is the QPA and what role does it play in Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course taught by Loh C?
Who teaches User-Centered Research and Evaluation B?
What was the final score of the game between Brockport St. and Carnegie Mellon on Sat, Nov/18?
What is the location of the first author's teaching place mentioned in this text?
 What is the purpose of the algorithm Unsupervised domain adaptation via PAC-UDA in the text?
In what month did the Carnegie Mellon Invitational take place?
Who are the authors listed in reverse alphabetical order at the end of this text?
 How many participants were divided into three groups and how many users were in each group?
What are the locations of all meetings in this text?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
When should independent study contracts be submitted?
 What are some dimensions in which generated text can be evaluated?
What are the days and times for Digital Service Innovation class?
At what time does Advanced Independent Study class start and end according to the given schedule?
What are the names of the floors where Language Technologies Institute is primarily located in Gates-Hillman Complex?
What is the name of the course that starts at 9:30 AM on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Bevins in room 2705 on Tuesday and Thursday from 8:30 AM to 9:45 AM?
What is the name of Carnegie Mellon's student-athlete recognition program?
What are the days, timings of Wang's classes?
How can students get assistance from Computing Services?
 What is the main advantage of GC-IMS technology in analyzing volatile components?
When does the Optimization and Risk Modeling for Managers class end on September 19th?
What is the course title for Heller's class on auditory perception?
 Why were all factors (user, page, task setup) randomized in the experiment?
 How is the rank determined from the compression ratio in tensor decomposition?
What are the names of the authors who conducted a research training on 'Writing in Statistics'?
What is the title of the course being discussed in this text?
Which player's hometown is Danvers, Massachusetts?
When and where is the 'Introduction to Graduate Studies' class held?
What are the class names and their respective locations for the given time slots?
What are the days of the week and times for Bug Catching course offered by Instructor TBA?
 What is the shape of the complex spectrum generated by the short-time Fourier transform (STFT) module?
When and where is the Scholarship for Service Seminar being held?
What type of study is Independent Study in History 3-9 A?
 What does the proposed CASR metric aim to assess?
When does 'Flame 2: The Next Step' take place?
 What are the key components of the S3Rec model?
What are the names of the instructors for Network Forensics and Cyber Forensics Capstone courses?
What is required for MS students to use department printers?
What is the location of the Language Technologies Institute?
What was the date and time of Carnegie Mellon's next event according to the schedule?
What is the purpose of the University Computing Policy?
Who are the students for Capizzi I's elective studio?
What was the result of the SUNY Geneseo Mike Woods Invitational for the women's cross-country team?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the Costume Design course?
 What kind of environment does the WebArena provide for evaluating sophisticated methods?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What is PCPs?
Where can you find more information about Fernando Diaz's research interests and work?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Sakr?
 What does CHARM range in size from?
 How does the paper contribute to the theoretical understanding of evaluation in the field of information retrieval?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Chen's Database Systems course?
Where can students find additional information and resources related to this topic?
What are the three sections of the course schedule provided?
What are the expectations regarding external employment and consulting for students funded by LTI research projects?
What is the name of the class being offered in Production Prep for Lonely Planet at 11:00 AM on Saturdays?
What is the name of the course being offered by Martin?
How many student-athletes recorded a 4.0 grade-point average (GPA)?
 Which type of volatile substances is present in high amounts in dried fruits?
What are the locations and times of Hofstad's classes?
Does the MCDS program accept students with external fellowships?
Who are the instructors for Categorical Logic?
What is the course code for Game Sound?
In which classroom is the Team Conflict and Multiparty Negotiation A4 class held?
Who is teaching the course titled 'Problem Solving through Solving Problems'?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed in the text?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor Andersen in Lisbon, Portugal?
 Which gap is generally greater, the concept shift gap or the cross-lingual gap?
What are the names of the teachers and their class locations?
 How does the joint model integrate dialog context to improve the SLU performance?
 What does the sequence sc represent?
 How did the projected solar PV in India differ between the STR scenario and the RCP2.6 scenario?
 What is the guideline proposed for structures to avoid splitting failure?
What are the names and codes for the classes listed in the text?
What is the time and location of EUREKA!: Discovery and Its Impact?
How many events were part of The Visit Florence Intercollegiate 'A' and 'B' Team?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 9:00 AM on Friday in San Jose, California?
Where is the Physics I for Engineering Students class held?
When was the track at Gesling Stadium resurfaced?
What is the name of the course in Carnegie Scenic F?
How many hours is User-Centered Research and Evaluation Seminar worth?
What is the location of the first event in the schedule?
 What happens to the crack propagation rate when it reaches the bottom of the pit?
What is the purpose of the Office of International Education (OIE) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the topic discussed in The Iconoclast by Jason Togyer?
What is the location of Senior Research Project 6,12 A TBA DNM DNM?
When was the NCAA Championships held for Men's Cross Country in 2023?
Where are all the classes listed for Taylor, Kosbie that start with 'F' held?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:30 PM on Monday through Friday?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Introduction to Computer Systems?
What are the names of Ozdoganlar's three classes and their meeting times?
What is the course name for Dayal's class?
What is the course code for 'Design Center: Design for Social Innovation'?
Where was the final game of the season for Carnegie Mellon's Men's Soccer team held?
Why would a student choose to graduate under policies adopted after they entered the program at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the exceptional circumstances where candidates can apply for admission at FCTUC?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for the courses offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the weighting term used in balancing the importance of each T-F unit in relative RIR estimation?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Music 57100 Convocation?
What is the name of the city where this information was found?
What is the minimum number of units required to maintain full-time enrollment status?
 What is the goal of retrieving a set of keys Kbest?
What is the name of the course offered by Moufid and Vincent?
How many Independent Studies can a student take during their MLT coursework?
Where and when was the course 'They Came as Romans: Roman Civilization 360' held?
What is the significance of mentioning the Pittsburgh campus location?
Who joined CSD in 1969 and brought research in speech, language, and computer vision?
How can students get involved in undergraduate research and honors thesis at the university's School of Computer Science?
What laws guarantee that qualified individuals receive reasonable accommodations?
How many courses are listed in this schedule?
How many times have the Women's Soccer team been selected to NCAA Championships Field?
Is there a graduation ceremony for students who pass their courses according to the text?
What are the course codes and instructors for Vincent Naik's classes?
What were the final scores of the game between Carnegie Mellon and #12 Case Western Reserve?
Where is the 'Introduction to Music Cognition Research: 9.0' being offered?
 What is the core idea behind the training procedure of the proposed approach to dataset condensation?
What are the dates and times of all classes listed in the schedule?
 What is highlighted as a necessity for further development in WebArena?
 What are essentialist beliefs?
What is the name of the institution where this course information was found?
Who are the orchestral instructors at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
 What is the domain distribution in the mixed pre-training dataset?
What is the course code for Kant?
What is the name of the player who plays as a forward and has the number 9 on her jersey?
What is the date and time of Carnegie Mellon's softball game against Cal Lutheran?
 How many rules are sampled during training time?
What is the name of the student who taught a course on 'Introduction to Quantum Computing'?
What is the purpose of Eberly's Future Faculty Program?
 What limitations does the framework face in testing components that use device-only APIs?
What was ad hoc about much of the work in computer chess?
When does Production Prep SOM 3 take place?
When does the lecture 'Environmental Engineering 9.0' take place?
What is the title of the course that starts at 03:30 PM and ends at 04:50 PM?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): Stage Management?
Where does Hayley Kilgore live/come from?
What are the days and times for Undergraduate Seminar IV?
What are the names of the courses that start at 11:00 AM on Tuesday, Thursday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Spacecraft Design-Build-Fly Laboratory 2?
Can you follow @thetartan on Twitter to stay updated with their latest news and articles?
When and where does the 'Learning for 3D Vision' course take place?
What is the subject and time of Bernstein's class?
What is the policy for students pursuing a master's degree as part-time students?
What is Scott Fahlman's research area?
What is the purpose of section 4.3.7 in the text?
At what time does the Independent Study in Film & Media Studies start every day?
Who is teaching Production Prep: A Little Night Music at 11:00 AM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What time does the course 'VMD Systems Studio: 9.0 VMD Systems Studio A' start?
What is the role of the Director of the degree program in relation to internship requirements?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this page?
 What are some advantages of Prompt2Model over LLMs like GPT-3?
What are 'lab courses' according to LTI?
What are the instructors for Independent Study in HCI-UG sessions?
What is the source of information about approved qualifying courses for MIIS students?
What is the name of the teacher teaching Intermediate French II?
 Why is pretraining in the QA task useful for zero-shot slot-filling?
What is the course name and instructor's name for Physical Chemistry (Thermo): Macroscopic Principles of Physical Chemistry held on MWF 11:00AM - 11:50AM in GHC 5222, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the person who teaches New Pedagogies in MM 312 at Pittsburgh?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
 What is the initial effective pre-tension set for S1, S5, and S6 in the corrosion test simulation?
What is Shafi Goldwasser known for contributing to?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered at 5415 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times when Principles of Software Construction is offered?
What is the policy regarding smoking at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the two courses offered by iii Engineering Core A and Business Core A?
What is the location of The Citizen Artist class?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the title of the final course listed in this text?
 What is the backbone employed by all the compared methods mentioned in the text?
Why does LTI want you to join them?
What are the days and times of 'Multilingual Minds and the Brain 9.0'?
At what time does Lassman's class start?
Where is the study abroad program located?
What year does the article talk about?
What is the name of the project mentioned in the text?
What is the duration of each semester in this doctoral program?
 How are discrete image tokens processed in the Im2Sp system?
What is GSA's role at CMU?
In which room does African Americans, Race, and the Fight for Reparations take place?
What is the responsibility of students regarding fees for prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures and referral to emergency room or specialists?
What is the purpose of iCalendar RSS Feed?
Where is the Curtis Institute of Music located?
When does Schwartz teach his course?
 What approach does the wav2vec2 model use in its pre-training?
What are the names of the elective studios?
What is the course title and instructor's name for the class that starts at 10:00 AM on Tuesdays?
Who is addressed by the statement 'you should voluntarily withdraw from the university'?
 Which metric achieves the highest or comparable Kendall-Tau and Spearman correlation with functional correctness across all four languages?
What is the URL for the Carnegie Mellon University Academic Calendar?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Mathur and Murphy?
What are the names of all the classes in this text?
Where and when does Special Topics in Sound Design take place?
 How does combining AGKD and CGKD affect performance according to the text?
Where can you find the full schedule of programs offered by the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE)?
 What is the purpose of using discrete speech units in speech processing models?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Trac in this semester?
What is the Black and Latinx Athlete Coalition?
Where can students find information about professional development opportunities?
What is the title of the book that Wenner teaches?
Who are the performers of Chamber Ensemble: Brass?
 What does the text describe as a mismatch between training and inference alignments in mel-spectrogram based autoregressive models?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Intermediate Microeconomics and their respective class times?
How many pages does the handbook have?
What are the names of the instructors who teach at HH C101?
Who is teaching the Design Build Elective course?
 What is the Flesch-Kincaid readability test based on?
 How many new programs were attempted to be generated through the prompting strategy?
Who is the instructor for Collaborative Piano Skills II section 3.0?
What is the name of the person working on Scenic Design for Carnegie?
What are the topics covered in Special Topics in Integrated Systems Technology?
What is the course title of Chin's Diplomacy and Statecraft class?
Who can contact the Language Technologies Institute according to the given information?
What are the names of all instructors listed in the given text?
What is the name of the course that starts at 2:00 PM on Tuesday and Thursday in room MM 307?
What degree does the text describe?
What are the time slots for Media Design for Production Prep: A Little Night Music?
 What approach is used to reduce the computational complexity in the PAR architecture?
What does the MIIS degree offer?
 What are the two colors used to indicate different modules in the sample alignment software framework?
What is the subject of Patel's class?
What is the author's opinion on the use of smiley faces in written communication?
When and where does Mcgowan's Photobook 10.0 class take place?
What is the name of the conference that Dr. Clarke co-founded?
 What department appealed a decision to the Supreme Court in April 1992 according to the context?
 How many steps does it take for the learning rate to reach the maximum value during training?
 What is suggested as a trade-off between toxic identification and generation in the text?
What are the course names for classes A4 on Monday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM and Wednesday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
Where is the university located?
 What trend is observed across different versions of OWSM in terms of ASR capability?
What does the academic calendar provide information on?
What is the course code for MCS Honors Research?
When does Special Topics: Statistical Methods in Finance (course code 36666) meet?
What is the course code for Embedded Systems?
What are some recent accomplishments of Graduate Student Assembly?
What is the purpose of the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems (MIIS) degree according to the text?
When is Special Topics: Maker Series: Inventive Projects held?
 What is SAMA and how does it contribute to scalable meta learning?
Where is Davis B's course located?
What is the headquarters building of the Robotics Institute called affectionately?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Writing the Adaptation for Stage and Screen'?
 What library is used to implement all baselines?
What is the course code and title of the French & Francophone Sociolinguistics class offered at 02:00PM in room DH 2105?
What is the name of the document where you can find information about LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the permit rates for parking areas on campus?
 What did the method proposed in this text aim to use to fine-tune speech enhancement models?
Where is Undecidability and Incompleteness taught?
What does the acronym 'SWE' stand for?
Who is encouraged to bookmark The WORD and refer to it often?
What kind of physical education classes does Carnegie Mellon offer?
 What type of models have achieved state-of-the-art results as constructive heuristic solvers for combinatorial optimization problems?
Where is this article about?
What are the names of the courses being offered at F, and what is their respective duration?
What is the course code for Keyboard Studies (Graduate): 3-6?
What is the purpose of the Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Crane?
What is the role of Teruko Mitamura in Carnegie Mellon University?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
What were some notable achievements made by CMU during that time?
What is the policy on external employment and consulting in MIIS program?
What are the class times and locations for Rosselot-Merritt A4?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Sound Design?
What is the course title and location of Sap's class at POS 153?
Where can students find information about academic and research support services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days of the week when Budnik teaches a class?
 What simulation process was adopted for mesh processing?
How can students find more information about the Language Technologies Institute's location?
Which department is responsible for computational biology at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
 How do methods controlling for fluency (PPL) compare in terms of perplexity?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study in Solfege, Independent Study in Eurhythmics, and Independent Study in Sound Recording Production?
What was the Alto used for in computer science?
What is the location of Computing @ Carnegie Mellon - M1?
How can students obtain general information about the university?
When does Translation Technologies take place?
How many credits does each course have?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
 What are the parameters for the language models code-cushman-001, code-davinci-002, and StarCoderBase?
 Would Academy Award and Best Actor in Supporting Role link to the same entity’s article on Wikipedia?
Who is the instructor teaching Interdisciplinary 62051?
What is the name of the course held on Fridays from 5:30 PM to 7:20 PM in Room B23, 118 San Jose, California?
What are the topics covered in the Intro to Deep Learning Part I course?
Which team did Carnegie Mellon play in their final game of the season?
What is the location of the Elective Studio (Clarinet) class?
 What method is used to control the sparsity of the pruned model?
What are the standards that must be observed in an academic community according to this text?
What are the course codes and instructors for Systems Neuroscience (03363) and Neural Correlates of Learning and Memory (03365)?
What is the contact information for Language Technologies Institute?
In which city does Bain offer PhD Reading and Research TBA DNM DNM?
 How is the GLoRA architecture articulated?
What are the class names and their respective days/times for HOA A10 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What are the three updater mechanisms described in Figure 2?
Who is the instructor for Exploring Pittsburgh in Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
What is the goal of cultivating a transformative university community?
What is the MSAII program according to the text?
Who were the instructors for Directed Research A-DNM and B-DNM?
What are the days and times when 'Transdisciplinary Thinking' is offered?
 What technique is mentioned for improving Android apps in the text?
What are the names of the two laboratory classes offered at CFA A6 in Pittsburgh?
What is the title of the lecture that starts at 9:00 AM in room MM307?
When and where does BME Design 6.0 take place?
Who is the Course Coordinator(s) for Information Sciences and Technology?
 What was the content of the corpus used in the system?
Are students with Stafford Loan required to maintain full-time status at MCDS?
How does the university promote individual well-being among its student-athletes?
What was the highest score received by a Carnegie Mellon system designed to rapidly answer questions?
 What percentage of participants indicated they were junior members of the community?
What was Berliner's first computer program?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Beginning Golf and Basketball Skills A1 in the Fall 2023 semester?
Who are the instructors for the course 'Independent Study'?
 What task are the annotators required to perform in this study?
Who teaches Literature and Repertoire: Tuba?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics in Drama: Eco-drama'?
What are the areas where AI can be applied according to Scott Fahlman?
What is the location of the Special Topics in Music class that starts at 2:00 PM and ends at 2:50 PM?
What was the significance of Shafi's work on zero-knowledge proofs?
What are the courses offered on Tuesday at 12:30 PM?
What is the course code for 'Web Application Development'?
What is the name of the course that teaches Stage Management?
What is the phone number for general inquiries about Carnegie Mellon?
Who can students contact if they have questions about the process of requesting accommodations from the Office of Disability Resources?
What is the Master's in Intelligent Information Systems degree about?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered by Dabbish and Skirpan?
Who is responsible for making arrangements to pay for their insurance at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many faculty members and graduate students were there in the Computer Science Department by 1982?
 How many exhaustion-related biological gene panels were established for CD8+TILs?
What are the days and times of the seventh class listed in the schedule?
What are the names of the people who teach lectures on Monday and Wednesday at CMB 2152?
Who teaches Sound Recording and what are the days, times, and location of this class?
Where can one find more information about the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems program?
What are the names of the classes that start at 11:00 AM on Tuesday and Thursday?
Who resisted naming the school 'School of Informatics'?
Where was Raj Reddy born?
What is the name of the class taught by Harrison at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches CMIST Graduate Internship at Institute for Politics and Strategy?
 How do Liu and Chen (2021) improve the model used by Afantenos et al. and Perret et al.?
What are the course names and their respective days/times in Business Communication for Analytical Decision Making?
What should students do if their anticipated delivery date is during the course of a semester?
What is the name of the course that offers a study abroad opportunity in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed?
What is the name of the instructor for course 95913?
How many Tartan soccer players earned Academic All-District Honors from College Sports Communicators?
How many individual music studies studios are there in total according to the text?
 What is the evaluation denotation for Fully zero-shot TTS and Text-seen zero-shot TTS?
What is the name of the program mentioned in the text that allows us to exploit language data?
Where is the Career and Professional Development Center located at Carnegie Mellon?
Who were the instructors for Literature and Repertoire: Trumpet?
When and where is the Conservatory Hour class held?
 What are the advantages of using AGR as a clinical indicator?
What services do the libraries at Carnegie Mellon offer?
What is the maximum age for GRE test results?
What is the course name and location of Strollo's class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the capstone planning seminar?
What is the course code for Quality Assurance?
When and where does Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice take place in the second row of the text?
How can students get involved with GSA or contact them for more information?
 How was the data split for training purposes?
Who are the instructors for each class?
What is the course code for Ben-Michael F's Monday and Wednesday courses?
When does the class 'Machine Learning with Large Datasets' take place?
Who teaches lecture D at WEH 6403?
What is the schedule for the Costume Production session of SOM 2?
How did Rashid's work impact the field of operating systems?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Flushing and Doha?
What are the days and times of Handron's lecture?
Which production preparation activities are Gloria involved in?
What is the class name and day for the class that meets at PH A19 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How was the model trained for unsupervised text pretraining?
What is the name of the organization that provides cross-registration opportunities for students in Pittsburgh?
What are Shinji Watanabe's research areas?
 How many generations were used for the evolutionary algorithms with 400 evaluations?
What does the Master of Computational Data Science program equip students with?
What services does the Office of Housing and Dining Services offer?
Where did Dr. Newell work before joining the CIT faculty?
 How many Transformer layers were used in the decoder?
In what room is Banned Books being taught?
When are advisors selected for each student?
What happens to students who take a Formal Leave of Absence?
What is the purpose of the Veterans & Military Community website at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who did Tartans take a road hit against on January 21, 2024?
 Name one of the authors involved in the exploration on HuBERT with multiple resolutions.
Why is it necessary to review the privacy policy and terms of service before using Adobe Acrobat for Google Drive?
 What is the fundamental factor enabling model re-parameterization?
How many followers does the Carnegie Mellon University Track & Field program have on Facebook, according to the information provided on this page?
What is the course code for Advanced Topics in Analysis: Convex Functions?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
What event did Tartans have top performances at on February 13, 2024?
What is the role of the Office of the Dean of Students?
 How is the chance level estimator calculated in the experiment described in the text?
What is the purpose of FERPA, as mentioned in the student handbook?
What are the dates and times of Sirbu's class?
When and where is the Probability and Mathematical Statistics class held?
How will I know my User ID?
 Why was informed consent waived for this study?
 What role does NLP play in combating essentialist beliefs according to the text?
 What is computed to obtain Macro F1, Micro F1, and Pairwise F1?
Who are the speakers at Seminar IV: Capstone Project Research?
What does QPA stand for in relation to cross-registration courses at Carnegie Mellon University?
What does the word 'Share' indicate in this text?
What are Heimann's classes and their schedules?
Does Carnegie Mellon University have a campus in Qatar?
Who can use the Carnegie Mellon's tennis courts?
Where can students find more information about Carnegie Mellon's Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives?
 How does the frame synchronous beam search differ from the label synchronous beam search?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
When and where is the 'Cause and Effect' course held?
What is Microsoft Research currently investing heavily into according to the text?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Information Systems on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 2:30 PM to 4:15 PM?
What was the name of Carnegie Institute of Technology before it became CMU?
What is the location of the class 'Philosophy of Social Science'?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Women’s Gatherings (GWGs) program at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can students find information about OIE's services?
What is the opportunity mentioned in this text?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
What is the course title of Automation of Scientific Research taught by Lugo-Martinez?
What is academic integrity at MIIS?
What does the statement 'Inquiries concerning the application of and compliance with this statement should be directed to the university ombudsman' mean?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Tuesday and Friday from 4:00 PM to 6:30 PM?
What is the name of the person teaching 'Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Introduction to Japanese Mahjong'?
 How was the input text truncated to improve training efficiency?
What is the course code for Tissue Engineering?
What is the purpose of the SCS25 live webcasts and videos?
What is the URL of Carnegie Mellon University’s Campus Wellness webpage?
Which courses are offered by the Philosophy department with a time slot of Tuesday, Thursday (03:30PM-04:50PM)?
Who are the authors that start with the letter 'S' in their last names?
 Who are some of the individuals acknowledged in the text?
What is the course code of Translation Workshop II?
What are the days and times for each course?
 How did Stiennon et al. (2020) train preference models on ranking-based feedback?
What is the name of the class taught by Moseley D F?
What is the name of the course that teaches Alexander Technique for Musicians?
What award did Dr. Clarke receive from Carnegie Mellon Computer Science Department in 1999?
 What is the sampling rate mentioned for audio inputs in the text?
Is there any specific date for starting this archive?
What is the location of Costume Design for Dance?
What are the days, times, and locations for course 15650 Algorithms and Advanced Data Structures?
What is the course code for the PhD internship held in room TEP 5200 at different times?
What is the contact information for reporting serious accidents or accidents taking place elsewhere on campus?
 What method is used to maintain the content in the system described in the text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Introduction to Political Philosophy?
What is the purpose of section 6.18 in the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the course credits for Distributed Game Studio - Game Art Pipeline?
What is the main focus of the Human-Centered Data Science (HCDS) concentration?
What is the schedule of the SOM 3 class?
When does Benedict's class start on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
What is the purpose of developing new methods for using knowledge graphs and ontologies in this project?
What is the course code and title of the class taught by Mr. Zamborsky in PCA 107?
What are the names of the people listed in this text?
In which section can you find information about Dining services?
What are the dates of each student's enrollment?
What is the location of the Carnegie Mellon University?
What time does the Ear Training course start?
What is the name of the course held in room DH A302?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the schedule?
Where was Rick Rashid born?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Morningstar in this semester?
What is the location of all the classes?
 What is the main objective of the single-time retrieval augmented generation approach?
What is the name of the course that teaches Deep Learning Systems?
What is the purpose of Urban Challenge technology according to Carnegie Mellon Tartan Racing?
Where can students find detailed consumer information about the university?
Who teaches Independent Study 95918 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How many remote courses can be counted towards the 36 units used to satisfy full-time enrollment at MCDS?
 What is the benefit of the proposed method for encoding-decoding models?
How can students sign up for workshops at the University Libraries?
What is the name of the tournament that Carnegie Mellon's Men's Golf team will be attending on Tuesday, March 5?
 What does SELF-REFINE do after generating an optimization through PIE?
 What was the recall score of ChatGPT compared to human gold labels?
Could you attend this event virtually through a webinar or video conferencing platform?
What time does the Developmental Biology class start and what are its days?
What was the final box score for their game against Case Western Reserve on November 11th?
What is the location of Cooper E's class in POS 151?
How many students are listed for Major Studio (Harp)?
Where can students find information about course changes at CMU?
What is the course name of Mackey's class on Monday from 8:00 AM to 9:50 AM?
 Which approach requires more domain expertise and a higher developer workload when expressing new slots?
What are the courses taught by McDonald for Societal Computing Reading & Research?
What is the policy on using courses taken as part of another degree program towards an MLT degree at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 12:00 PM on Tuesday and Thursday in San Jose, California?
 What is the utility measure U for in Utility-guided Exploitation Based on Edges?
When and where will Elective Politics and Policy-Making be held?
What happens if an MLT student receives an outside graduate fellowship?
 What are some of the datasets and models mentioned in the text?
What is the responsibility of Ph.D. students at LTI regarding laptop computers?
Where is the class 'AI, Society, and Humanity' held?
What is the course code of Mathematical Modeling of Environmental Quality Systems?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What recreational facilities does the University Center have?
What are the course codes for 'Studies in Latin American Literature and Culture' and 'Undergraduate Internship'?
What are the days and times of the Advanced Designer Draping course?
When and where will the Applied Machine Learning class take place?
 How does BERTScore compute sentence-level precision and recall?
What are the circumstances that may warrant a grade appeal?
How many sections of User-Centered Research and Evaluation are being offered in this schedule?
 What is the gold standard technique mentioned in the text to defend against privacy attacks?
What are the course codes for Cardoso Llach's Master’s Project, Cochran's Master’s Project, and Kim's Master’s Project?
What is the course title for SH 236?
What are the days, times, and locations of all classes offered by Park and Vasilescu?
Where is Jake Slackman from?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
What are the names of the instructors for Major Studio (Horn) 9.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where is the third class session for Business Leadership Endeavor II taking place?
 How does the compression time of Hu-BERT Base compare between 32 V100 GPUs and 8 GPUs?
What instrument does Vosburgh teach at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the afternoon at PTC MPR Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is another interesting fact about Dr. Shafi?
What are the days and times of Mayshle 76106?
 How does the recall performance differ in crosslingual event linking for Afrikaans and Vietnamese based on the table data?
Does Carnegie Mellon offer housing to graduate students?
What are the days and times of the courses offered in this schedule?
What was the name of the elective recital that took place?
 What do the ground-truth entity clusters in ReVerb45k come from?
How do students convey their research results according to the text?
 What percentage of the masked sequences in the preliminary experiments did not match the proper length?
Who is eligible to continue receiving stipend funding during a Short-Term Maternity Accommodation or Formal Leave of Absence?
 Why is it important to use GPT-4 to aid in evaluating LMM responses on the MMHAL-BENCH?
What are the course codes for two other psychology courses mentioned in this text?
What is the name of the instructor for Physical Education 69004?
What is the requirement for attending LTI Colloquium in Ph.D. program?
 What is the goal of participants in the CHiME-7 DASR Challenge?
 What process is used to fuse the results of 6-channel audio in the AVSD module?
What are the benefits of pursuing a degree in Intelligent Information Systems?
What are some other news articles related to the university mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the handbook that provides guidelines for graduate student assembly?
 Which region shows the same trend of dust column concentration with high values in April and May for both GRASP/Component and MERRA-2 products?
What is the name of the course being offered by Kaess?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
What are the definitions of some important terms used in LTI terminology?
What requirements must a student meet for Ph.D. applications at Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What are some of the traits associated with Scottish terriers according to the text?
What is Production Prep for Macbeth and when are they scheduled?
 What is the main objective of the proposed decoupling approach in the text?
What are study partners?
What are the class timings for 'Photography and the Ephemeral'?
 What were the meteorological conditions like during the persistent pollution episode?
Who are the instructors of Fundamentals of Mechanical Engineering (course code: 24101)?
When is Directing A scheduled to take place?
What does the Master of Computational Data Science Program offer to its students?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
What was the result of Tartan Women's Cross Country Schedule in the Paul Short Invitational?
What is the duration for Reading and Research 1-48?
 In which regions do contributions from temperature and surface downwelling shortwave radiation work in the same direction?
What is the time and location of the Introduction to Entrepreneurship course?
Who is the instructor for PhD Advising course?
What time does the Softball match against King's (Pa.) start on Sunday, March 17?
What is the name of the instructor at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What does 'F' stand for in Carnegie Scenic F?
Which player is from Nazareth, Pennsylvania?
What is the course title of Ostlund's class?
What is the title of the seminar offered by Garlan, Kang at 3SC 265 on Monday and Wednesday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
What time does the Men's Tennis match between Case Western Reserve and Carnegie Mellon start on Sat, Apr/20?
What are the class times for Production Prep:Penelope: Lighting Design 1?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Advanced Developmental Biology and Human Health?
What if my fall semester grades are not on my transcript by the application deadline?
What is the purpose of the Shuttle and Escort Service at CMU?
What is the maximum time to complete a PhD degree?
 What is a challenge faced in the usage of ILA related to orthographic standards?
Where does the 'Introduction to Lighting Technology' course take place, and what is its duration?
What are the days and times of the class 'Social Web'?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
Who are the instructors at BA and C classes?
When and where does the Research in Psychology take place?
What are the time slots for Production Prep: Penelope in terms of days and hours?
What are the days, times, and locations for course 15640 Distributed Systems?
 Why is it necessary for language models to understand constructions?
 How many epochs were the models trained for in the experiments?
What is the purpose of an independent study course for an MCDS degree?
 What is the null hypothesis stated for hypothesis testing of AM predictability from phonemes?
What is the address of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the purpose of seeking approval for extension of time to degree limit?
 What is the GitHub dataset and why was it included?
 What is the limitation of methods that control large models like GPT3?
What are the names of the courses that start at 7:00 PM on Wednesday in CFA A6?
What is the name of the school where Quesenberry, Mertz, Moussawi, Hagan, Poepping, Instructor TBA J and Tu are instructors?
What are the names of the professors teaching in CMU REMOTE at different times during the day?
Where can students find the contact information of their College Liaisons?
What is the MCDS degree's teaching requirement?
Who can apply for CMU PhD programs after graduating from MS in MCDS?
What are the course codes and instructors for Music Skills II class?
What are the dates and times of Autonomous Control Systems class?
How tall is Liam Ryan?
What happens when a student's Master's degree completion takes longer than usual due to academic interruptions?
 How do the %GCVs for B lineage viruses compare to %GCVs for influenza A viruses in the study?
What are the course names that start with 'Tech Startup'?
What does Rashid think is the main focus of Microsoft Research?
What was the schedule of events during the NCAA Championships for Women's Swimming and Diving?
When is the class 'Chinese Calligraphy: Culture and Skills' held?
What type of event was it?
What is the purpose of this passage?
What are the instructors for 'Advanced Relational Database Management' course?
According to the text, what are some of the factors contributing to the underrepresentation of women in mathematics?
Where and when is the Advanced Digital Integrated Circuit Design course held?
 What challenge is introduced in the paper regarding factuality detection?
Who are the instructors for Violin Literature and Repertoire at F 01:15PM in MM 119?
What is the email address for transcript questions at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What are the statistics shown in Table 3 for the StackOverflow experiments?
 What method is used to estimate speaker images and linear filters in UNSSOR?
What is the decision-making process for granting transfer credit or issuing an exemption?
What is the phone number for Mona Diab?
 How does PET compare to GPT in terms of performance on human goal specifications?
What is the course code and title of the Independent Study offered by English?
At what time does Parno teach Stars, Galaxies and the Universe at POS 151?
Who are the instructors for Topics in Formal Epistemology and Senior Thesis 1-18?
What is the significance of the name 'Immigration Course (IC)'?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's policy regarding discrimination based on genetic information?
What is Krista McGuigan's position in the text?
What are the days and times for Designing Human-Centered Software C?
 What type of dataset is Baize-Chatbot26?
When will the application period open for Fall 2024 admission to Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
When is the Dramaturgy Forum held according to the information provided in this text?
What position does Will Svendsen play?
What are the names and locations of Wyczesany's classes?
What time did Men's Tennis start against Denison on Sunday, March 31?
What is the location of Instructor TBA I in this text?
 What factor can make A-LOL KL unstable as mentioned in the text?
What are the locations for Human-Computer Interaction 05120 and Persuasive Design?
What are the names of the instructors who teach mathematics at the University?
Which music studies studio does Cardenes teach at?
 What were the concentrations of CCN at different supersaturations during the campaign?
Who teaches the 'Percussion Methods' course on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 3:00 PM to 3:50 PM in room HOA 224?
What is the name of the course being taught by Zetlin-Jones at TEP 3801 on Monday and Wednesday, 7:00-8:20 PM?
 What is one limitation of the PAR framework mentioned in the text?
What is the academic program of Aishwarya Agrawal?
What are the names of all classes taught by Belanger?
What is the email address of Jamie Callan?
How many instructors are listed for the undergraduate independent study mini VAR A4?
What happens if a student receives credit for prior coursework completed at CMU or elsewhere?
When are the classes for Introduction to Accounting Theory held?
What are the departments within SCS relevant to MIIS degree?
How much does it cost to apply for a graduate program in the School of Computer Science?
What does Scotty think about Captain Kirk?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
Who is the instructor for Violin EB at the studio?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is Gary Aldrich's title and contact information?
How should students discuss recommended electives outside SCS with their advisor?
Who was honored as the 2023 WeAreAFCA DIII Football Assistant Coach of the Year?
 Which back translation strategy was explored for Bribri–Spanish NMT transformers?
Who teaches the course 'Histories of Urban Design' that starts at 3:30 PM on Tuesdays in room CFA 102?
 Why are scanning tomography methods becoming increasingly popular at synchrotrons?
What is the course code for Applied Distributed Systems?
What is the name of the office that handles research integrity at CMU?
 What is the work supported by a grant from, as mentioned in the text?
What are the class times and locations for Volleyball A3's Racquetball course?
What are the three classes being offered by Musuraca and Eslami at different times on Wednesday?
Who is the instructor for Literature and Repertoire: 3-6?
What is the name of the school that played against Carnegie Mellon in softball on Sun, Mar/31?
What are the days and times for Farbacher's MSCS Research Thesis class?
 What do the results of the ablation study suggest about providing instructions and demonstrations to the LLM?
What is the purpose of this text?
What are Matthias Grabmair's roles and contact information?
What are the names of the authors who wrote 'Design Thesis Practicum: Video and Media Thesis D'?
What is the name of the first shared-memory multiprocessor computer developed in the Computer Science Department?
In what city and at what time does the String Quartet class take place?
Who evaluates the student's academic progress at the end of the semester?
What is the role of the LTI in supporting students seeking internships?
What are the course codes and titles for Machine Learning in Production?
What is the URL for Carnegie Mellon's Policy Against Retaliation?
When should independent study contracts be submitted?
What are the class times for Production Prep: Lighting Design with Mr. Burns?
 How many pairs with the smallest normalized (cid:96)2 distance are displayed for StyleGAN-ADA and DDPM model?
What is the location of Parking and Transportation Services at CMU?
 What is one advantage of E2E models mentioned in the text?
How many events did Creek Golf Club participate in during this period?
What is the purpose of Office of the Dean of Students at this university?
In what room is Academic Writing and Communication for International Graduate Students held?
What are the names of the instructors and their respective courses in this schedule?
What is the course title and class time for Shields' and Van Hoesen's classes?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Design Center: Design for Social Innovation at 12:00 PM on Monday?
What are the names of the classes taught by Goyette?
 What is the goal for participants in this task?
What are the days and times of Interpretation and Argument: Interpretation and Argument?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Nanolegos: Chemical Building Blocks' and 'Modern Chemistry II'?
What is Carnegie Mellon's policy on plagiarism?
What other position does Dr. Reddy hold?
What is the equivalent ECTS credit for completing a semester's worth of teaching support?
What are the days and time of Independent Study for Entertainment Technology Center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is Psychology of Prejudice held?
 What backbone is adopted for text classification tasks?
How can you share an event from the iCalendar RSS Feed?
What are the course instructors of each student?
What are the names of the courses taught by Ravi?
What is the course code for Techniques for Organic Synthesis and Analysis?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Dr. Rakach for Teaching Assistantship in this semester?
When and where is Stagecraft: VAR Scenery (3 units) taught?
How many students are listed for Major Studio (Cello)?
What is the name of the course taught by Ramakrishnan and Singh in Rwanda?
What is the name of the class that starts at 02:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
How many units does Architecture have in Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
What is the role of ORIC in ensuring responsible conduct of research?
Why does the author mention teletype operators in his discussion of the origin of the smiley face?
What is the name of Berntsen W's event?
 What experiments were conducted in the paper?
What is the purpose of the Emergency Student Loan?
Who should submit their application before November 29, 2023 at 3 PM EST?
What is the name of the production being prepared for Production Management C?
 What type of linguistic markers are used to soften the impact of instructions and negative feedback in peer-tutoring interactions?
How many units will be provided to MS students for computers?
 How does CodeBLEU attempt to address the limitation of requiring a lexical exact match?
What are the days and times of Jafry O'Connor's classes?
 What is a key factor in translating domain-specific terminologies effectively?
 What advantage does the RNN-LM have over other N-gram-based models?
Which team did Robert Coury's repeat as AP and D3football.com All-American performance occur against?
 What dataset is used for inference and fine-tuning in the Reading Comprehension Fine-Tuning step?
How many offices are mentioned under 'Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety' in the text?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in Language Technologies Institute?
Who sponsored the pilot project that demonstrated traffic signals can react to quickly changing conditions?
What are the locations where classes of 21355 and 21373 are held?
What is the purpose of an annual poster session at MIIS?
What is the duration of Independent Study 95928 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the two co-founders of Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science recognized by the magazine's name?
 What benchmark is the Python subset of the CodeXGLUE code summarization task constructed from?
How many types of faculty are mentioned in the text?
What are some research projects conducted at the Language Technologies Institute related to Machine Learning?
What are Fernando Diaz's research areas?
 What does the study conclude about the filtering of training data?
Does this institution have a campus in Qatar? If so, where is it located?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
Where and when does the 'Optimization for Prescriptive Analytics' course take place?
When does the class 'Graduate Reading and Research' take place?
What were the dates of the Carnegie Mellon Invitational?
What is the location of Warren's class?
When does Shen teach Lec 2 at DH A302 in San Jose?
Name a self-paced lab that focuses on Information Retrieval.
 How many coded duplicates had maximum to minimum ratios of ≤3.5?
 How many new tokens were generated for each example during query generation?
How many units are required in each semester for the Research Preparation Track?
What was the first system developed by Raj Reddy that could recognize continuous speech?
What are the names of the speakers at the Experimental Writing class?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
What is the time slot of Innovation & Entrepreneurship class?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
Where does Intermediate Rapid Prototyping take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What kind of initiatives does Carnegie Mellon University provide for its students' mindfulness?
What are the dates and times of each listed production preparation course?
 What do the differences in regional means between GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product reveal over the ICP region?
 How many words are usually considered when calculating PMI?
When does Hibshi's first lecture start?
What does 'LTI' stand for in the given text?
What is the purpose of attending LTI Orientation Faculty Research Talks for students in MIIS program?
 After applying a Bonferroni correction for multiple hypothesis tests, were the results still significant?
What is the course title of the class taught by Meyer Grelli in room TEP 2700 at the University of Pittsburgh?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
 How can significant computational savings be achieved in the training phase of the CHiME-7 DASR task?
What is the role of academic advisors and associate deans regarding student’s program of study and degree requirements?
 Why do some objects in the AI2Thor simulator spawn in unexpected receptacles?
When does the application for fall 2023 open for Master of Information Technology Strategy?
How many players are mentioned in this text?
 How is Recall@k evaluated in the hierarchical relation extraction method?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
When is Ear Training class held?
 How was the data collected for the dataset?
Who is performing with Van Hoesen in event FF?
What is the policy for external internships at Carnegie Mellon University's LTI?
What is the deadline for MLT students to submit their proposal?
What are the days and times for Rape Agression Defense Systems (RAD) class?
 How many numbers are between 70 and 75?
Are elective courses from other Schools at Carnegie Mellon allowed for SCS CMU students?
 What approach did Z. Ye, Y. Zou, F. Cui and Y. Wang use for automated audio captioning?
Where are the classes taught by Rulke located?
What is the meeting time for Kesden's course in Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering?
 What type of license did the authors apply to the Accepted Manuscript version for the purpose of open access?
What are the days and times for Laboratory I: Introduction to Chemical Analysis B section?
What is the course title and location for History of Modern Architecture?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What is the title of the first event?
What is the purpose of an LTI form in relation to travel funding for students?
What is the course name for Special Topics in Circuits?
What is Graham Neubig's research goal?
What were the results of the matches mentioned in the ninth to eleventh texts?
 According to the text, which model is considered the best overall in terms of performance?
What are the course codes for High Tech Product Management and Principles of Product Management?
What is the location of Independent Study in Information Systems?
What is the title of the course that starts at 08:00 AM and ends at 09:50 AM on Monday, Wednesday?
What is the course code for 'Topics in Arabic Studies'?
Under what circumstances can a school or college defer the lapse of the time-to-degree limit?
What are the names of the teachers who teach in rooms WEH 8220 and BH 235B?
What are the days and time slots of the 'Special Topics in ICT: Planning for Digital Transformation' class?
What is Ralf Brown's phone number?
When does the first application period start for the 2022-2023 academic year?
What is the process for appealing a final grade in MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
Who is the intended audience for this website?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered at POS 146 on Friday afternoon?
What is the hometown/high school of Lyndon Gotelaere?
 What causes the largest trade-off between toxic identification and generation?
What is the purpose of elective courses in School of Computer Science?
Where can students find academic support at CMU?
When is Directing A scheduled to take place?
What are the locations and times of Nakahira's classes?
Who gets credit for inventing recordings of sound?
What are the class times for Energy Demand and Utilization?
Who are the authors of Junior Recital 1.0 AA?
 What is the size of the context window Nw for the 100M model variant?
When can clients bring in a project for support?
What is the name of the Elective Recital taking place at A2?
What does the MLT program prepare students for after graduation?
Who is the instructor for the Carnegie Scenic course?
What page should someone visit to find information about academic programs offered by LTI?
How many courses are offered in Los Angeles, California?
When are the tests for CMU Alert conducted?
What is the purpose of the link provided at the end of the text?
 Why do developers find the process of writing unit tests simpler compared to researchers?
What is the course code for 'Kinetics of Metallurgical Reactions and Processes' taught by Pistorius?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:30 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room HL 106B?
 What is the purpose of the RoBERTa model in Task 1?
What are the names of the courses taught by Larocca?
What is the name of the second instructor listed?
What are the names of the instructors for the 'Production Prep: Penelope' courses?
How many independent study courses are listed in this text?
 What are [S] and [E] in the text?
 Why is it important for the agent to issue only one action at a time according to the rules provided?
When does the Research Training: Modern Languages: 3,6,9,12 take place?
 How are communities defined in the text?
What is the name of the class being taught by Instructor TBA?
What are the days and times of lecture E on Algorithm Design and Analysis?
 How does the CUTTLEFISH method determine factorization hyperparameters during training?
What are the names of the internships offered by TBA?
Who is the target audience of this website?
 What was the average MCD between ground truths and synthesized waveforms for each MRI feature subset?
What is the time of the first meeting between Erdmann and Kaynar in this text?
Can a student take undergraduate courses for credit?
What are the names of the teachers teaching 'Introduction to Greek Mythology', 'Beyond Physical: The Psychology of Athletes', and 'They Came as Romans: Roman Civilization 360'?
Who is Kemal Oflazer?
Who is the instructor for the 'Developing as a Leader' session?
What are the names of the two graduate recitals for violin in this text?
Who teaches Steier's course?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday at 11:00 AM in room SH 234?
What is the name of the event that Carnegie Mellon University participates in on Tue, Mar/05?
What are three forms of support funding available through the Office of the Dean of Students at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the authors listed in this text that teach at the University of Pittsburgh?
Who are the instructors for Designing Human Centered Software B?
 What is the name of the benchmark presented in the text?
What is the purpose of the program described in the text?
 What are the three stages involved in the Multimodal RLHF pipeline?
 What are the results reported in Table D.4 across different bias domains?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
 What does the one-mass asymmetric model for vocal folds propose at the midpoint of the vocal folds?
Where does the 'Networking and the Internet' course take place, taught by Sherry?
What are the names of the three teachers who supervised recording teaching in Practicum 3.0?
Where does the sixth class take place and who teaches it?
What are the course codes and instructors of the courses starting at 9:00 AM?
 How do linguistic frameworks aim to help models generalize across domains?
What is BOSS and what did it do?
 Would your work benefit from smaller versions of pretrained models released alongside larger ones?
Who said 'My greatest regret...is that Deep Blue wasn't really a 'learning' system?'
When and where does Martins' class take place?
What happens if a car is parked in a permit area without a valid permit or at an expired meter?
Who is teaching the Neurobiology of Disease class?
In what room is Policing Media being taught?
How can a student find their assigned HUB Assistant Director at CMU?
Where can students find more information about the CMU | Portugal website?
 When was Bohemian Rhapsody released as a single in the United States?
What are some of Graham Neubig's long-term research goals?
What is the application process like for prospective students at Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
 What is the significance of indexing and storing the expanded corpus on disk?
 How does passage retrieval in conversational question answering differ from conventional retrieval tasks?
Does Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science have any campuses other than the one in Pittsburgh?
 What is the main focus of the text?
How long do students participating in the dual-degree program spend in Portugal before moving to Pittsburgh?
Who are the instructors for each instrument?
Who teaches the A R lecture of 'Sign and Development'?
 In the LLM-based approach, what reduces the human bias in generating slot questions?
What is the location of Computing @ Carnegie Mellon - O1?
What is the name of the department where Scott Fahlman works?
 How do the standardized data preprocessing pipeline and open-source recipes enable researchers?
What are the two sections of the document?
What is the name of the course being taught on Thursday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
 What is the main model used in the study and what LM does it use?
What is the course code for 'Logic Design and Verification' and where does it meet?
Who are the instructors for Music and Technology Project?
What educational institution does Dr. Reddy help govern?
 What toolkit is used for the blockwise speech translation models?
Where does Platz teach his Creative Producing course at NM Los Angeles?
What are the course names, instructors, and time slots for the courses offered at 07:00 PM on Monday?
Where is the Thomas J. Watson Research Center located?
 What are some tasks that large language models (LMs) have been successful in?
When does Sender Lighting have its Production Prep session?
How can I obtain email addresses for faculty members in the School of Computer Science?
What are the names of the two classes that start at 09:00 AM on Saturdays?
Will I be considered for financial support if I am admitted?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday at 9:30 AM in room DH?
What kind of programs does the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion offer specifically for women students?
 How many mel-cepstral coefficients (MCEPs) are extracted in the text?
What are the names of the courses held in room MM 119?
 What was the p-value obtained from the one-sample t-test on the mean-squared error between automatically generated labels and human annotations across all story pairs in the training data?
How many days of Maternity Accommodations can a student take?
What is the role of Program Director in advisor selection process?
Where is Personalized Online Learning being taught?
What are the names of the classes that start at 9:00 AM?
What is thesis/dissertation according to the text?
 What improvement was made for the F-Droid application?
When was the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) rebranded to CSC?
What position does Chad Russo play?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What is the contact information for the Office of Title IX Initiatives?
What is the contact information for students who have questions about accessibility at Carnegie Mellon University?
What kind of financial assistance is available for students who become parents while enrolled at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Acting for Non-Majors take place on Mondays, Wednesdays?
Why must students understand and follow only permitted forms of collaboration as defined by their instructor?
What services does Parking and Transportation provide for CMU students, faculty, and community?
What position does Kiera Boucher play?
What is the name of the individual music studies studio for each instrument in the orchestral category mentioned in the text?
 What is the purpose of the bottleneck layer in the encoder input?
Who did #14 Carnegie Mellon play against in their final game on Fri, May/19?
How many credits is course 27798 worth?
 What is the value associated with GPT-4 at the 23rd position in the text?
What was the problem caused by lack of tone-of-voice cues in text-based communication?
What is the course title for the lecture held on Monday at 12:00PM-01:50PM?
What percentage of the curriculum consists of coursework for the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems program?
What is the purpose of the Research at CMU website?
When does the Stage Management section start and end?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
What is the goal of extending search engine architectures in this project?
When does 'Climate Change Science and Solutions' take place?
What is the name of the first author listed?
Where is the Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation located?
What is the title of the course that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 12:20 PM?
Who teaches Advanced Methods for Data Analysis class?
What are the days and times when Dr. Li teaches Science and Science Fiction (33120) in Doha, Qatar?
What are Wu's two online Chinese courses in Modern Languages?
What are the course codes for GHC 5233 and 3SC 110?
 How many steps is the model trained for in the OTT-QA setup?
 What is the initial step taken by the proposed method for improving inference speed?
 What are the advantages of blockwise self-attentional encoder models for simultaneous speech translation?
What is the main purpose of the Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 3:00 PM?
What are the course codes for Major Studio (Bagpipe) and Major Studio (Collaborative Piano)?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA?
What kind of issues can the Student Support Resources team assist with?
What is Kai Herchenroether's position and class level?
 What optimizer is employed in training the oracle model?
What resource does the university provide for Ph.D. graduate students to review?
Who are the authors of the article 'Research in Psychology' conducted by MacWhinney and Mahon?
When does the Beginning Piano for Minors class meet in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of the class taught by Quesenberry at Pittsburgh University?
Who are the instructors for Mccarthy 95788 Developing Blockchain Use Case?
Who is the instructor of Contemporary American Fiction?
 In inference, how does a large language model generate output with the guidance of the prompt?
What are the days and times when the course 'Dance/Light: Lighting Production J' is held?
 In Table 4, what is the conclusion regarding the ablation study of KD-DLGAN?
What approach did Berliner use to achieve greatness in chess according to Campbell?
Are consensual intimate relationships prohibited under this policy?
Does the school have spring admission?
What does the university aim to achieve for its students?
What is the time and location of API Design and Implementation?
What are the topics covered in Sanford's research training?
What is the course code for General Studies Capstone Course?
Where and when does Faulkner teach the course 'Molecular Tools for Biological and Chemical Studies'?
Where and when is Vatanasakdul's Sustainability in the Digital Age class held?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
 What is the benefit of using an error estimator in the proposed method in the text?
 How can users access the code necessary to replicate the experiments presented in the text?
Where is Collaborative Visualizing held?
What is the overall record of the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
 What are the two primary research areas studied in the text?
 When the initial crack angle is 0°, what happens to the crack tip stress?
Who were the performers at the Gruber Graduate Recital?
What are the course codes and titles for the three courses offered at 84380 US Grand Strategy?
 What was the exact match accuracy achieved by the system in the second paper for the reminder/weather domain?
What are the course codes for the two courses taught by Professor Andersen?
What are the days, times, and locations of Eslami's Programming Usable Interfaces classes?
When was the official Scotty costume unveiled at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What recommendation is given for setting the hidden size and expansion in FFNs for medium-sized models?
What is the location of Introduction to Flameworking: TBA C?
 What was the maximum improvement in execution time achieved by applying the proposed approach to current versions of software?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Research?
 What is the difference between short-form and long-form knowledge-intensive generation tasks?
What is the name of the center that focuses on teaching excellence and educational innovation?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered on Tuesday at 08:00 AM?
What are the course codes for Climate Change Science and Solutions offered at different times?
 What is the dataset derived from the CourtListener platform?
What are the requirements for completing the Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow program?
 What ethical implications are discussed in the text regarding Prompt2Model?
 What is the negative aspect of training a single model on a massive amount of language pairs?
Who teaches Thermodynamics at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes of all courses taught by Shah in Pennsylvania Gormley?
 What is the trend seen in human fluency evaluations for captions generated by E-S and Incre-RSA?
What is the Scottish terrier breed known for?
What is the name of the class that starts at 03:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is the degree that a student pursuing in LTI Ph.D program will receive after graduation?
Is there an early deadline for application submission and what is the fee if it's met?
 What is the overall accuracy of the E-Branchformer+WavLM model?
Where is the location of M DNM's doctoral dissertation?
What are the course codes, titles, and credit hours for the courses offered at WEH 6403 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the courses mentioned in this text that start at 9:30 AM on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
 What is the likelihood that any factor influencing gene function will ultimately affect voice, according to the text?
What is the name of the course that starts at 03:30 PM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the purpose of the Parking and Transportation Services site for graduate students?
What are the course names for classes B3 on Tuesday from 2:00 PM to 3:20 PM and Thursday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
 What does the abbreviation A-LOL stand for in the text?
 What parallelism strategies have been proposed to train Transformer models according to the text?
What is the purpose of Longer-than-standard Completion?
What are the course codes for Youngs W MW 11:30AM 12:45PM TBA Doha, Qatar Moufid 82208 Eastern Europe: Society and Culture?
Why was Rick hesitant about joining Microsoft?
What is the name of Hanson's course in Dancewear Techniques?
What is the name of the person who taught Directed Reading Mini 3,6,12,15 G2?
 What is the purpose of the environment described in the text?
 How is the relationship between reciprocal rank and lexiprecision tested under incomplete information?
What is the current win-loss streak for the home games of the 2024 Tartan Softball team?
What are the three classes offered for Costume Production?
What is included in gynecological care provided by University Health Services?
What kind of jobs can Doutores em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores do after completing the program?
What are the days and times when course 15251 has lecture B?
What are the three areas for choosing a concentration?
At what time does the 'Introduction to Parallel Distributed Processing' course start?
How can students make appointments at UHS?
What are the days and times of Introduction to Nuclear and Particle Physics class?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Communications Studio III: Designing for Complex Communication Systems in MM 211 on Tuesday?
What is the name of the student who taught a course on 'Introduction to Command-line Tools'?
 What are the key differences in the vertical distribution of aerosols between autumn and winter?
What happens at the end of 'The Kiltie Band'?
Which player's high school is located in Mason, Ohio?
What is the course code for Introduction to Mathematical Concepts?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
 What percentage of patients had no extranodal involvement?
Who are the instructors for Thesis Seminar, M.Arch Studio: Praxis 1, and Architectural Theory & Contemporary Issues?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at BH 340A?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Monday at 8:15 PM in Modern Data Management?
What are the names of the speakers in the last three sessions?
Which department is responsible for the Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies?
Who was named UAA Athlete of the Week according to the news on October 24, 2023?
 What is the attention sparsity mechanism in TASTE used for?
Where does Teaching Apprenticeship - Spanish C take place?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the recital that takes place at Schepkin AB?
Who is the instructor for section 51636?
Who are the instructors for Supplementary Readings 3-12 A and History Prospectus 5-36 A?
 What was the average RH and temperature during the pollution episode?
What is the location of Practicum in Computer Science, Design Studies: Futures, Design Studies: Experience, Communications Studio II: Designing Communications for Interactions, Calligraphy I, and Prototyping Lab II: Communications?
Who is the instructor for Sound Design For Interactive Environments course?
At what times and locations did Heard and Kurchin teach their classes?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the name of the course being taught by Oflazer?
What are the dates and times of Seminar for Peer Mentors?
Where is EPP Teaching Practicum located?
 What does the bimodal logarithmic distribution of aerosol volume concentration indicate?
What is the purpose of Project Olympus Startup Incubator according to this text?
Are students expected to work during winter and summer breaks if they are supported by research projects?
What game did Berliner learn from his father-in-law?
What is an interest-free loan?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on TR from 8:00 AM to 9:45 AM in TEP 2111?
What is the purpose of the annual campus security and fire safety report published by Carnegie Mellon University?
What are some aspects of language that hold potential for practical systems according to Graham Neubig?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor Mowry and what are its credits?
Which courses are taught by Professor Rosenberg Munoz in this schedule?
Where are Depretis and Burke teaching their courses?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of Spirtes' class?
 How does the proposed model use encoder features compressed by CTC prediction in the decoder-only architecture?
How can a student on leave of absence return to the program?
Which option is a traditional way of sharing content?
What is the course code for Managing People and Teams Capstone?
What are the days, times, and locations of Lizama's classes?
 How do the outputs generated by SELF-REFINE compare to those generated by INIT?
Which courses are taught by Ayoob?
 What type of model is Translatotron 2?
What are the names of the people teaching the 'Proposal Creation: 3.0', 'Costume Production Monograph A', and 'Directed Study in Design 6-36' classes?
What is the name of the course taught by Collins A?
What is the location of the last class on the schedule?
 What areas were evaluated to compare Jais and Jais-chat with other models in the text?
 Which language was the mobile app released for in the paper about gamified data collection for low-resource languages?
 What does Table 1 summarize?
What resources are available for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the names of the courses offered by Twigg at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the educational goals mentioned in the text?
What are the main themes that will be discussed during this special topics in HCI class?
What is the requirement for outside funding in Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation (MSAII) program?
Who is teaching Exploded Ensemble?
What is the name of the person teaching Basic Harm in this text?
Where is the IDeATe: digiTOOL class held?
What additional information can be found on Computing Services' website?
 In what languages can the Jais-chat 13B model accurately respond to queries?
What is the course code for Operating System Design and Implementation?
What are the names of the courses mentioned in this text, along with their respective start times?
What is the course code for Policies of Wireless Systems?
What are the names of the instructors listed at the end of the text?
 What religions are mentioned in the text?
 Why is it important to augment datasets for music recommendation?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses taught by Breaux, Berardone, Miranda, Pavetti, Ashok in Studio Project I?
Who is teaching what subject at which location and time?
Which instructor teaches Computational Molecular Biology and Genomics?
 What is the Markov assumption that the N-gram Language Models (LMs) rely on?
Which component in CTAT allows you to configure Eclipse for production rule editing?
What are the days and times for Maker Series: Prototyping for Equity?
What is the name of the individual music studies studio for each instrument in the orchestral category mentioned in the text?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What are the course codes for De Boer's two classes?
What is the course code for Quantum Physics?
What was the purpose of creating the emoticon according to Scott Fahlman?
 What is the Peak prominence threshold used in the algorithm in the text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Walker?
What are the time slots for Macbeth's lighting production?
What should students do if they need to take a leave of absence due to their pregnancy?
 According to the text, which strategy is the most popular for countering essentialist beliefs?
What is the primary tab active when you first land on the Language Technologies Institute login page?
 How do the trends in Figures 27, 28, and 29 align with the findings from the contextual human evaluation study?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
Is it possible for students to change their advisors? If so, how?
When does Elective Studio (Guitar) take place?
What was the date of the news article about Carnegie Mellon dominating in the UAA Championships?
 What was the most improving change in the Fosdem Companion application?
What is the residency requirement for Ph.D. students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the services provided by the University Police Department?
 What technology was used to analyze the volatile components of branch sap and dried fruits of different colors in Schisandra?
Where and when does 'Gadgets, Sensors and Activity Recognition in HCI' take place?
What was the response of faculty members to the student revolt in 1968?
What is Peer Tutoring at CMU?
What are the procedures and deadlines that undergraduate and Master’s level students must follow when adding, dropping or withdrawing from a course?
When does Style take place at Wean Hall?
 What are the three distinct groups into which the available actions in WebArena are categorized?
How does LTI share its research findings with other professionals and researchers across the globe?
What are the names of the people who will be attending the production prep sessions for each department?
What degree did the person earn from Stanford University?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Theatrical Lighting Design?
What is the course code for Foundations: Sculpture mentioned in the text?
 How is the output signal at the lips computed in the forward-backward approach?
Does this institution have any other campuses besides Pittsburgh and Qatar? If so, where is the Silicon Valley Campus located?
Where are the classes for Architecture Design Studio: Poiesis Studio 2 in Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
What is 'Just in Time' Workshops at CMU?
What is the purpose of providing community space and resources on campus?
What are the names of the authors who have 'Shields' as their last name?
What is the course code for Emerging Markets?
What are some example schedules for completing the MIIS-21 program?
How do they use their talents to influence the world in positive ways?
When and where does Repertoire Orchestra take place?
Who teaches the Musical Theater History class?
What are Ralf Brown's research areas?
When does Text to Screen take place?
What is the location of each course in this schedule?
Who is the instructor for Sustainable Design Synthesis Prep (48731)?
What is the title of the course that will be held at POS 146 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What happens if an LTI PhD student does not notify the Program Coordinator in advance about their TA-ship?
What was the time of day when the men's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Stevens started?
Are fee waivers available?
What resources are available for spouses, domestic partners and families of graduate students according to The Graduate Student Assembly website?
What are the days and times of Shamos' classes?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Monday and ends at 12:20 PM?
What are the class names and days for Labash F4?
What is Emma Strubel's research area?
Who are the Carnegie Mellon faculty members joining James Gosling and Kevin Dowling in the panel discussion?
What are the names of the classes listed in the text?
Who are invited to visit this page for application support through the School of Computer Science?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Solfege 3-9 A, Independent Study in Eurhythmics 3-9 A, and Independent Study in Sound Recording Production VAR A?
What facilities are available at Skibo Gym for athletic activities?
Does this handbook provide information about admission requirements for LTI Ph.D program? If yes, where can we find that information?
What are some resources available to understand university policies and expectations?
What is the course title of Le Goues and Kaestner's Computational Social Science Research Design and Data Analytics class?
What is the name of the instructor for Keyboard Studies for Voice A, Keyboard Studies for Composition B, and Graduate Composition Project 1.0?
What is the relationship between optimal transport and machine learning?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
 How many sentences were there for trans-agent?
 What is the value of 0-shot at the 25th position in the text?
Where can you find resources on Herbert Simon's work?
When does Shen teach Lec 2 at BH A53 in Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the class that meets on Monday through Friday evenings from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
 What are some of the safety measures implemented in the deployed system for the instruction-tuned model Jais-chat as mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Psychology?
Who are the instructors for the courses in Kigali, Rwanda?
What is the name of the course taught by Matthews and Vinchesi in lecture C TR 08:00AM - 10:20AM?
What happens if my expired TOEFL score is over two years old?
What is the course topic for U.S. Latino Literature?
What is the difference between iCalendar and RSS Feed?
What are the topics covered in Sanford's research training?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching Basic Experimental Physics?
What is the location of the event 'LEED: 6.0 LEED, Green Design and Building Ratings'?
 What is the F1 score range achieved by the linear classifier depending on the probability threshold used?
Where is the location of Tsamitis's independent study?
How many times can Ph.D. students intern at Carnegie Mellon University's LTI?
What are the dates and times of the Production Prep sessions for 'Schauspieldirektor/Telephone'?
What are the names of the two events mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the event on January Sat. 20?
What are the dates and times of the Genomes, Evolution, and Disease: Introduction to Quantitative Genetic Analysis seminar?
What is Academic Integrity?
When is the Application Deadlines for Regular Decision in Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course names in this schedule that focus on policy analysis?
What is the barrier faced by LGBTQIA+ students, coaches, and administrators according to Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of all classes taught by Professor Schulz?
What does 'Tartan' refer to in this context?
 How does IPA combine the generalizability of RL with the flexibility of inference-time techniques?
Who were the instructors for Directed Research A and B?
 What is the validation accuracy (%) for the PUFFERFISH model with VGG-19 Params.?
What is the Master of Robotic Systems Development Application?
Who teaches the course 'Special Topics in Embedded Systems: Introduction to Embedded Deep Learning'?
Where is the Lemur Project based?
What time does the Electronic Music Seminar start?
What is the purpose of the annual security and fire safety report provided by the University Police Department?
What is the name of the class offered on Monday at 10:00 AM - 11:45 AM (TEP 2118)?
What is the name of the External Projects course that focuses on Costume Design?
When does the lecture of 'Professional Issues in Engineering, Science, Technology and Public Policy' take place?
What kind of staff does University Health Services have on its team?
 How are heatmaps generated in the text?
Which section of the handbook does not have any information provided?
Which player from the 2023 Tartan Volleyball Roster is from Tiburon, California?
What are the timings of Internship course?
What was the final score of Women's Tennis game on February 24, 2024?
Where did van der Sloot graduate from?
What is the name of the course that teaches MSCS Career Planning?
When is 'Principles of Computing' held?
What is the course code for Building Performance Modeling VAR?
 What is the range of improvement margins shown by Jais-chat (13B) over mT0-xxl (13B) and Falcon (7B)?
What are the days and times when Production Prep: Dance/Light: VAR Stage Management D class is held?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
In what room does Benvenuti's class take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where can you find information about university policies and expectations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times of the Production Prep: Lonely Planet: Dramaturgy course?
How can students access information about parking permit rates at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What do Figures 27, 28, and 29 depict?
 What does recent work suggest about scaling model size and the amount of pretraining data in relation to new abilities?
 What model is used as initialization for both the path reranker and reader models?
What does 'payment plan' mean in the context of this text?
 What is the definition of factuality in math problem solving at the claim level?
 What is the purpose of structured-pruning in model optimization?
Where does Physics of Stage Machinery take place?
 What is the trend of the Scattering Aerosol Albedo (SSA) as pollutants accumulate?
What is the meeting time of Costume Design G on Wednesdays and Fridays?
What are the resources available to assist students in understanding university policies and expectations?
 What are the two criteria that can be used to determine the size of a city?
What is the course title of Information Systems Security?
 Why are established probing methods not fully covering constructional knowledge?
 What is one limitation mentioned in the current study regarding the fetch object task?
 What is the class-wise IoU on domain generalization with SynLiDAR as the source and validation set of light fog in SemanticSTF as the target?
What are the locations of Doha, Qatar and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the days and times of 'Attitudes and Persuasion 9.0'?
What are the class locations for Crazy Linguistically Rich Asian Languages and US Latinos Literature?
When does the 'Introduction to Research' class take place?
What is the internship requirement for MIIS-16 and MIIS-21 programs?
 How are the counterfactual context pairs classified in terms of the situations they represent?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study: Breadth?
 What method was used to collect stakeholder feedback in the study?
Where is Anime - Visual Interplay between Japan and the World taught?
What are the topics discussed in Monte Carlo Methods and Applications?
What are the days, times, and locations of Mr. Good's Dramaturgy class?
What is the name of the building where Jo G2 class is held?
Is it acceptable or commonplace for students to use resources, including other persons, except as authorized by their course or project?
 What is the MS MARCO collection comprised of?
What are the names of the instructors for Collis CC and Lassman HH?
What are the dates and times for Dietrich Leadership Development Seminar II?
What is the course code and day/time for Senior Research Project?
What caution do you need to be aware of regarding potential intellectual property (IP) problems with internships?
What is Safeguarding Educational Equity according to Carnegie Mellon's academic policies?
 What is the main difference in performance between bi-encoders and cross-encoders across tasks?
Who is the target audience of this website?
Where can university policies be found according to the given text?
Does Carnegie Mellon University offer doctoral programs in computer science? If so, how many?
 What is the average error of the numerical simulation results in comparison to the test results?
What are the objectives of this doctoral program according to the description on the CMU-Portugal website?
In which room and at what time does section 51636 take place?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
Where is the location of Art 60590 Internship?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses starting with 'P'?
What are the varying permit rates at the Parking and Transportation Services office?
What is the name of the class where Directing is being taught?
At what time does Croft's Introductory Astrophysics lecture start?
What can students do if they have questions or concerns about their immigration status while studying at Carnegie Mellon?
Who are the instructors for the following courses?
 Who funded the study mentioned in the text?
Who are the staff members mentioned in this text?
Can I reapply if I was not admitted last year?
What are the days and times when 'Intermediate Arabic II', 'The Holocaust in History & Culture', and 'Third Cinema: People, Language, and Culture in Documentary Storytelling' classes are held respectively?
What is the location of the courses mentioned in this text?
How many key offices are there for health, wellness & safety according to the number provided (7.3)?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Dadfar?
What is the total number of instrumental studies offered?
 What settings can ILL seamlessly adapt to?
When and where does Puccini’s Operas: Politics of Representation take place?
What motivated Berliner to question conventional wisdom and preconceived notions?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Physics II for Biological Sciences & Chemistry Students and Introduction to Astronomy?
 What model is employed for evaluation of the translation quality?
What is the course title of Chase's class?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for HBH 1204 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does AudioGPT complement Large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT?
What was the duration of Reddy's tenure as Founding Director of Carnegie Mellon’s West Coast Campus?
What is the name of the policy that allows student parents to apply for financial assistance at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many players are on the 2023 Tartans Men's Soccer roster?
What are the dates and times of Production Prep: Love and Money: Dramaturgy B?
What are the locations of the cities where the music studies studios are held?
What is the course code and title of the independent study in professional writing offered by Mccafferty?
What is the title of the first course listed in the text?
Can a MLD (10-XXX) graduate course count as an LTI course?
What was the first programming language able to run on almost any platform?
What are the days, timings of Carlock's classes?
What is discussed in section 4.3.5?
What is the course code for Global Studies Internship?
What is the name of the course taught by Li C T in room DH 1112?
 What are the trainable support tensors A, B, C, D, E used for in GLoRA?
What did Ebeling say about Berliner's leadership?
What are some challenges faced by researchers working with optimal transport?
What was the norm in the 1960s according to NEWELL?
 Why is the gradient computation for the TDT loss done analytically?
Who are the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania who teach Master’s Degree Research 0-99 C?
Where is the LTI orientation held according to Chapter 4?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Operations Management or Operations Research?
What are the names of the classes mentioned in the text?
Who is the instructor for Topics in German Literature and Culture?
What is the topic of the paper presented by C.G. Bell et al in 1969?
 What tool was used to train the Jais subword tokenizer on a combined corpus of English and Arabic languages?
 What was the alternative architecture explored for the bottleneck layer?
When and where does Jafry O'Connor teach Business Leadership Endeavor II: TBA?
Who monitors the metered parking along Margaret Morrison, Frew and Tech Streets?
What are the names of all courses that start between 9:00 AM and 6:20 PM?
Who can elect benefits for their domestic partners at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of Appendix A in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
 What model is mentioned as being surprisingly efficient at multilingual SSL with only 4 GPUs?
 How can feedback models benefit from naturally occurring feedback data according to Askell et al. (2021)?
 Why does the triangle hesitate to open the door in the example from the Triangle COPA task?
Who received the 2023 Okawa Research Grant to continue his work on modeling human users of natural language processing systems?
 What is the task definition described in the text?
What is the purpose of the 'Faculty' section on this page?
Which office supports all graduate students and academic programs at Carnegie Mellon University?
 When comparing the same parameter size (100M) for VITS and MQTTS, which system wins out in all metrics except MCD?
Which player's high school is located in Manila, Philippines?
What is included in the enrollment information provided by the Office of the Dean of Students?
What is 6.1 Graduate Student Funding in Carnegie Mellon's financial assistance options?
What are the days and time of Role Playing Games Writing Workshop in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 In the story with Abby and her father, did someone say something that they should not have said?
Who teaches the EPP Projects I course in SH 234?
What is the course name and instructor for the class that starts at 06:30 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room TEP 2202?
 In terms of intended use, what are some audiences that are expected to benefit from the Jais model?
What is the course code for Graduate Recital (Voice)?
 Where are the implementations of DeiT-base and ResMLP-S36 sourced from?
What is the course code for Biomedical Engineering Laboratory?
When is the Vocal Master Class by Galbraith scheduled to take place?
What is the policy on Leave of Absence for LTI students?
 What percentage of all participants are affiliated with Carnegie Mellon University?
 How many categories are included in the Vicuna-Instructions-8041 evaluation dataset?
Where can students find more information about Student Privacy Rights and FERPA?
What will be available in renovated historic Skibo Gymnasium?
What is the purpose of the calendar displayed at the bottom?
Which option is a traditional way of sharing content?
Where and when does the 'Interactive Data Science' course take place?
 What does the computation of AM 𝑄𝑘 (·) do?
Who or what is being discussed in this text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Designing Large-scale Software Systems?
What are the research areas of Alexander Hauptmann?
How many dates are included in the Carnegie Mellon Athletics Schedule?
What are the course codes for Intermediate Chinese I and Fables, Legends and Stories from Ancient Chinese?
On which page can someone find the contact information of Language Technologies Institute?
What are some reasons why a Master's student might require longer than the standard time to complete their degree?
What are the names of the courses taught by Conte and Cousin listed for 'Tuesday, 12:30PM - 01:20PM'?
What is the topic of section 2.4 in the text?
 What did the study find in terms of performance improvements when speaker models were trained to rerank utterances solely by ToM listener score?
What are the key skills a student needs when judging solutions found for a problem?
Who teaches Policy Innovation Lab class?
What is the location of the first event in the schedule?
What event did they participate in at the NCAA Outdoor Championships?
Who is eligible for Parental Accommodation?
 How are the shared task organizers and contributors distributed?
 How many scientific articles does the TREC COVID BEIR corpus have?
What are the time slots for Mr. Burns: 6-21 Directing and Mr. Burns: Stage Management?
What is the course name for Mechanical Engineering Co-op?
 What are the main findings from the PRIMERA experiments highlighted in Table 4?
What does the section 3.3.18 talk about?
Why does Rashid modelled Microsoft Research after Carnegie Mellon's computer science culture?
What are university policies and expectations that students need to be aware of according to the handbook?
What is the role of the Office of the Dean of Students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the joint distribution in diffusion models that is the learned reverse process?
What is the name of the organization that the given contact information belongs to?
 What architectural improvements to basic E2E models are discussed in the text?
What are the days and times of the courses offered at HBH?
How does the error traces provided by model checking help designers?
What are the class names and locations for Bartos's second classes?
What is the name of the course being offered at W, its duration, and what type of class it is?
What are the locations of the instructors teaching ECE CO-OP and Undergraduate Projects VAR?
What are the class times and locations for B4's Rape Aggression Defense Systems (RAD) course?
What is the name of the university that has a football team mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors for Special Topics: Text Analysis (TR 09:30AM - 10:50AM) in POS A35?
 What does the failure example in Figure 12 fail to achieve?
What are the course codes and instructors of Cardiovascular Mechanics, Computational Analysis of Transport Phenomena, Direct Solar and Thermal Energy Conversion, Thermal Design, Structural Design: 12.0 Structural Design Lec, Structural Design A, Manufacturing Futures, Applied Finite Element Analysis: 12.0, Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials, Special Topics: Materials and Their Processing for Mechanical Engineers, Special Topics: Welding Engineering, Cellular Biomechanics, and Mechanics Modeling Guided by Fundamentals?
 What is the purpose of linguistic representations in the context of this study?
What are the names of the courses offered by Neumayer, Frieze, and Grossberg?
What does LTI stand for in the given context?
What is the name of the course that starts at 05:30 PM in New York, New York?
 How is the performance of GPT-3 described when tested zero-shot in the text?
What are the class names and their respective time slots for Jafry O'Connor?
What is the course title, instructor, and time for Chen's courses?
What is the course name for the lecture conducted by Vincent?
What position does Nolan Hughes play?
When and where will Van Compernolle's dissertation research be held?
In what city and state are all these classes held?
What is the date of the NCAA Preview tournament at Keene Run Golf Club in Lexington, Kentucky?
 What type of distribution can the chainlink counts and chainlink connectivities be modeled as?
What is the name of the person listed under Doctoral Thesis Research 0-99 A?
What is the day and time of each class listed in the schedule?
On which day did the Gettysburg College event take place?
 What does exhaustion of CD8+TILs lead to?
When does MFA Director's Lab take place?
What is the purpose of providing CMU with a letter of support from an employer for students with an employer reimbursement plan?
What types of classes does the Athletics Department offer at Carnegie Mellon University?
 Why did the decoder-only architecture using only audio-text pair data struggle to outperform the Baseline EncDec results?
What is the name of Bass's class on DevOps and Continuous Integration?
What does 'Contents' refer to in the table of contents of the handbook?
How many instructors are there for Information Systems 1-12?
What is the location of all classes mentioned in this text?
What does 'to continue' mean in the instruction given?
 What types of models were participants required to use?
What are the class times for WR 05:00PM and W 05:00PM?
Who are the instructors for Information Systems 1-12?
What are the limitations of using AI tools for Statement of Purpose writing?
What is the course title for Vales' research methods class?
What is the course code for Survey of Western Music History?
What is the email address of Yonatan Bisk?
Where is CMU's Career and Professional Development Center (CDPC) located?
What documents are required for SCS Master's Admissions?
What are the contact details for LTI?
In which city is the course 'Clinical Data Science 9.0' taught?
What is the purpose of the MSAII program's policy regarding Leave of Absence?
 What does the study recommend for future studies on jointly modeling different SLU tasks?
What are the days, times, and room numbers for the classes held in room HBH A301?
At what time does Modern Chemistry II class start and end according to the given schedule?
What are the names of the two courses offered by Professor Caulkins?
What is the benefit of learning a second language using Duolingo?
What are the age restrictions for certain requirements?
What does 'practical systems' refer to?
 How does the convergence of approximate inference techniques change with model complexity?
How is financial support handled after the end of the semester?
Can M.S. students use courses taken as part of another degree towards their MCDS program requirements without prior approval?
What are some common insecurities in script security of CAPTCHAs?
What are the days, times, and locations of Bagpipe and Drum Band VAR and Advanced Bagpipe and Drum Band?
What happens if a person fails to complete their master's degree within the time-to-degree limit at MCDS?
What is the name of the internship program?
What is the title of the multimodal machine learning course?
When does 57236 Performance for Composers take place?
What kind of space is available for MS students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What kind of funding is available through the Office of the Dean of Students Emergency Support Funding?
What is the requirement to use athletic and fitness facilities at Carnegie Mellon?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the name of the course taught by Chandler?
How do students who are struggling in their studies receive warning letters?
 What was the aim of the study conducted on Kwak’wala
What are the course codes for Digital Photography I and Drawing for Non-Majors?
 How is the aggregation of predictions from short voice segments handled during evaluation?
What is the name of the person listed under Doctoral Thesis Research 0-99 A?
What are the two main categories listed under Academics and Research respectively?
What are the consequences if a student fails to obtain a B- or better in all courses counting towards core requirements?
What is the name of the seventh course mentioned in the text?
What is the course for 'Production Prep: Love and Money: Production Mangement'?
According to Siewiorek, what kind of personality traits did Allen Newell possess?
What are the dates and times of the Intro to Mammalian Physiology class?
 What was the focus of the paper on assessing chatGPT-based query rewriting for multilingual document-grounded QA?
What services do communicators offer?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA and ends at TBA?
What is the name of the course that teaches about sound production and takes place in PCA 103 on Monday and Wednesday?
What is the name of the book being used in 'History of American Public Policy'?
What is the course code for Practice Teaching (Secondary) and when does it take place?
What are the course codes for Klatzky's PSYCHOLOGY TALK 2020 and Professional Development classes?
What kind of funding may students receive according to policies set by individual research projects?
 What method was employed to filter out generated queries for consistency checking in the study?
 What is used to encourage diversity during online exploration in PPO?
What is the process for appealing final grades?
What is the title of Sooriamurthi's course that starts with 'B'?
What are the course codes for Operating System Practicum Lec 3 UT, Operating System Practicum B F, Operating System Practicum C F, Operating System Practicum D F, Operating System Practicum E F, and Operating System Practicum W R?
What are the course codes for the three Music Technology courses?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Sound Design?
Who are the authors of the article titled 'Research in Psychology Practicum 1.0 A'?
 What is the funding source for the work mentioned in the text?
What are the three production management courses being offered in this schedule?
What are the days and times of Sustainability, Health and Productivity to Accelerate a Quality Built Environment?
How many school records were set by the Tartans at UAA Championships?
Who is the target audience of this website?
 What do the vertical profiles of the aerosol extinction coefficient show?
What are the additional courses and project work that students interested in an M.S. degree other than the MLT degree should discuss with their Ph.D. advisor?
What is the purpose of the information provided about international students' immigration status in the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching 'Undergraduate Seminar I' and 'Techniques in Quantitative Analysis'?
Who are Syeda Akter and Siddhant Arora?
What is the name of the course taught by Sokalski at HH B131?
What is the location of all courses mentioned in the given text?
What does the Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offer?
What are the recreational facilities available at the University Center?
 What are the metrics used to measure the effectiveness of GILLMapper compared to other models?
What are the expectations of students at Carnegie Mellon in terms of personal, ethical and moral conduct?
How many professors in the U.S. were awarded the prestigious Okawa Research Grant in 2023?
Can students take additional non-prerequisite units beyond 144 units?
 What is the critical angle in the initial crack propagation process?
Do Ph.D. advisors provide access to computer clusters, cloud computing, or other resources at LTI?
Who is Paul Barnett and what is his role?
What is the purpose of publishing an annual campus security report by Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are expected to remain on campus during breaks in classes?
What kind of initiatives and resources does Campus Wellness provide for students at Carnegie Mellon University?
In what month did the Carnegie Mellon play their first dual match of the season?
What is the name of the instructor for HCI Process and Theory: Process and Theory in HCI course?
What was Joe Traub's priority as the new department head at CMU?
What are the days and times for Corporate Capstone Project 9.0 at WEH 5409?
What are the expectations of students while studying at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes for Phillips' classes?
What is the course title of Course 17691 and its meeting time?
What is the name of Lyu, Wang's course?
What position does Paul Davis play?
 What are some of the metrics used in the experimental setting described in the text?
What sports are mentioned in the text?
What is the degree offered by Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
According to the given text, what is the event that will be held at Block in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the class that focuses on Directed Research in Rhetoric?
What is the purpose behind dividing buses into groups and reducing bus connections in partial-multiple-bus interconnection networks?
 How do FEDEPTH and m-FEDEPTH algorithms perform against insufficient memory budget?
Where can you find more information about Professor (On Leave) Justine Cassell's research interests and publications?
Where is Digital Signal Processing taught and who teaches it?
 How is the optimization objective defined for finding the optimal solution in a CO problem instance?
Who replaced the prover in interactive proofs?
Which high school did Bay 23 attend?
 How does some recent work question the need for feedback?
Where is Owen Drama's study abroad program located?
When and where does Special Topics in Signal Processing: Applied Computer Vision take place?
What is the name of the handbook mentioned in the text?
What does a good letter from the faculty indicate about a student's progress?
What are the two types of Operations Management courses offered by Cho in this schedule?
When is 'Put Your House in Order: Lighting Production' scheduled?
 In the program for determining the range between the maximum and minimum values from a set of input pairs, how does the faster code optimize the process?
What was Campbell working on besides Hitech?
 What method outperforms PiCO on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 by an average of 2.13% and 2.72% respectively?
What is the meeting time of Stage Management D on Saturdays?
What is the name of the course taught by Hudson in lecture MW 11:00AM - 12:20PM?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two Independent Study in HCI-UG sessions?
Which team does Carnegie Mellon play against in Women's Tennis match #5 on Saturday, March 2nd?
Where are the Bain RW and Bain SV classes held?
What is satisfactory progress in CMU academic policies?
Where can students find the complete reference of this University policy on withdrawing a degree?
 What are some of the rules participants must follow in the CHiME-7 DASR challenge?
Who are the instructors for Crawford AA and Zwicker BB?
Which instructor offers a course called 'Introduction to Psychology' in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How many courses start with 'W' in the schedule?
What is the course name for Dadiani's class in DH A325?
What are the course codes for Special Topics in Hispanic Studies and Special Topics in Japanese Studies?
What is the deadline for submitting an Independent Study proposal?
In which room does the 'Sustainable Operations' course take place?
When and where will the Professional Development for PhD students II session take place?
What is the role of part of the band during basketball games?
What is the purpose of chapter 4 in this text?
What is the name of the class that meets on Monday and Wednesday at CMB 2052 in Doha, Qatar?
What is the purpose of the annual security and fire safety report at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is Carnegie Mellon University located?
What are the three main sections of Carnegie Mellon University's academic support services?
 How does UNSSOR perform at promoting separation based on the reported results?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
According to Susie Cribbs, what are humans worried about with the rise of artificial intelligence and tools like ChatGPT?
What are the days and times for Special Projects II in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where can students apply for the loan?
 What is the purpose of context-wire in Scone?
What does the MCDS Program offer?
What operating systems are compatible with the laptop computers that MS students can use?
What services does the Information Desk at Carnegie Mellon provide besides providing information about campus events?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Tuesdays from 4:00 PM - 4:50 PM in CMU REMOTE, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course title of the class starting at 12:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday?
What was the format of the championships?
What is the topic of 'Voting Rights in the United States'?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
What are the dates and times for Penelope's VAR directing class?
When will the orientation for incoming fall 2021 MCDS students take place?
What is Cèilidh and when does it take place?
What are the names of Hertz's three Department Research Honors courses?
 Why is it more effective to focus on the key aspects of variation in subgoal representations?
When does Castano Zuluaga teach Applied Projects for Business and Economics?
 How are the bias terms treated for ResNet-18, ResNet-50, and WideResNet-50-2 networks?
Who is the instructor for the sound design class of Macbeth?
What are the course codes for Advanced Solfege IV and Practice Teaching (Elementary)?
 What was examined in the study regarding stress changes at the fracture side of the steel wire strand specimens?
 What substitution in the PA gene of influenza A(H3N2) virus caused reduced susceptibility to baloxavir?
 What is the purpose of AUROC in the context of the text?
What is the duration of Professional Essentials for the Percussionist 3.0?
 What is the purpose of Table 11 in the text?
What are the goals for Professional Goals Industry and services?
What are the names of the instructors listed in the text?
Where does the event take place?
What is the name of Professor Rosé's lab?
What are the names of the courses that take place on days 6-24 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the class names and locations for Novosat's second classes?
What is the title of the course being taught by Benigni at MM 321 from 11:00 AM to 12:50 PM?
What are the days and times for Lecture 2 of Information Systems Milieux?
What are the days and times of the S course?
 What is highlighted about the gene KDM6B in the syndrome 17p13.1 according to the text?
What are the instructors for each production prep session?
What are the class times and location of Naval Laboratory (32100)?
What is the URL for the Academic Calendar at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the policy on transferring to another program according to this text?
Who teaches Financial and Managerial Accounting II in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What time does the class 'Eurhythmics IV D' start?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Student Assembly at Carnegie Mellon University?
In which room does Yu teach Computational Discrete Mathematics?
What is the name of the Portuguese platform that secured $21 million in funding?
 What type of gate predictor is associated with a specific I3D encoder layer?
When and where does Health Systems take place?
When and where is Basic Harmony I being held?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
What are the two courses offered by Zamborsky in PCA A35?
Which office supports veterans and military community members at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the goal of integrating foundational AI education into disciplinary studies?
 How many runs in total did the researchers have for their experiments?
What is the name of Schwartz's class?
 How is model capacity regulated in GLoRA?
How many players from Carnegie Mellon repeated as Academic All-America?
What are the days and times when Dr. Deserno offers Physics for Future Presidents (33115) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the course 'User Experience Research for Digital and Physical Products'?
What are the days and times of the Prototyping Lab I: Products class?
What is the maximum number of tuition and fees that need to be paid in this text?
What is the Department Code for submitting GRE scores to the School of Computer Science?
What is the height of Maya Bala?
When and where does the 'Graduate Forum' take place?
What is the name of Alexander Hauptmann's department?
What are the dates and times for Scenic Design class in Pittsburgh?
What are the course credits for Doctoral Dissertation in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the students listed in the text?
What is an independent study course?
What are the class times and location of 'Security Data Analytics' course?
Who are the authors listed in the second half of the text?
What are the topics covered in the Data Analytics course?
Where is the location of the event?
What happens if a student cannot find an internship?
What is the role of students according to the text?
According to the Policy Against Retaliation, what happens if someone makes a good faith report of a suspected violation at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is expected from students at Carnegie Mellon University in terms of their commitment to others?
How many instructors are mentioned in the text for each course?
What is the name of the course offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What are the locations and times of Farag's lectures?
Where is the Practicum in Statistics 1-36 course held?
What are the names of the elective studios offered in this schedule?
What is the course code, class time, and location of 'Draping Fundamentals: Artisan Lab B2 T'?
What are the units of Master’s Project 48703?
 What does the text hypothesize about inducing harmful output in aligned language models?
Who can participate in SI program?
What is the title of the Start Up Creation in Practice class that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 3:30 PM to 4:50 PM?
What are the course codes for Strategies for Your Industry Career and its instructor?
Who teaches at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Trumpet QA?
 What is the purpose of using variational autoencoders in recent works?
 Which regions experienced a decrease in day-to-day, month-to-month, and year-to-year variabilities of WP under carbon-neutral scenarios MOD and STR?
Who are the instructors for the courses listed below?
 What hyper-parameters are used for all TSP and MIS benchmarks?
 How is prediction handled for label prediction tasks in language models?
What is the course code for Topics in Japanese Studies?
What are the topics covered in Soluri's research training?
 What type of models are used for Speech Translation results?
What was the date when Megan Matsko's perspective on basketball evolved?
What happens if there is a conflicting professional relationship in which one party has authority over the other as per the policy?
What are the days and times for the Lighting Design I class?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching Basic Experimental Physics First Year Seminar?
What are the additional learning outcomes for students electing to complete the Analytics concentration?
 What is the main difference between the alignment methods that focus on post-acquisition processes and the alignment method discussed in the text?
Who are the instructors for General Studies Capstone Course?
What is the name of the course 'Foundations of Blockchains'?
Who is teaching Production Prep: Schauspieldirektor/Telephone for Stage Management on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is an 'LTI lab course' according to the given text?
Where are these courses offered?
What is the name of the team that played against Carnegie Mellon in the final game on November 4, 2023?
What is the name of Mitchell's course?
What are the names of the individuals listed under the department 'Instructor TBA X'?
What is the role of the Program Director of graduate programs in an LTI Ph.D. student's oral presentation?
What is the deadline for Early Decision 1 in Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the title of the third part of the 25th anniversary celebration?
Why is Lemur's software development philosophy emphasizing state-of-the-art accuracy, flexibility, and efficiency important?
What is mentioned in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook regarding Domestic Partner Registration?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in room PH A7F at 9:00 AM?
What are the course titles, days of the week, times, and locations for lecture A on Tuesday from 7:00 PM to 8:20 PM?
What are the names of the two courses that start at 9:00 AM in room MM C4?
 What is the cost of Google according to the provided text?
 How many languages are covered by the multilingual SUPERB (ML-SUPERB) benchmark?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for Rosenberg's classes?
What did Shafi's husband Nir Shavit win?
How many pages should a written proposal prepared by the student contain?
What are the names of the individuals listed under Collaborative Piano WA, WB and WC courses?
What is the course code for Measuring Social Impact?
What is the Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete Alumni Mentoring Program designed to do?
What is the first name of the author listed as 'Tucker W'?
What is the name of the class being taught in room PCA A16?
What is the course code for Exploring CEE: Infrastructure and Environment in a Changing World?
 What data optimization operations are utilized in the text for weak supervision?
What is the name of the course taught by Perkins on B3 TR?
 How do Wang et al. (2021) connect the two stages in their approach?
What are the upcoming events mentioned in this text?
Why is it necessary to reason mathematically about computer systems?
When and where will Web Application Development be held?
In what city did Kaufman and Kravitz conduct their Reading and Research in HCI course?
What is the purpose of maintaining the Employment Eligibility Verification (I-9) Policy at CMU?
Where was the next match after the one on Tuesday at 12:40 pm CST?
What is the name of the institution where Whipple teaches?
Who were the instructors for Literature and Repertoire: Violin?
Why does the university emphasize academic integrity?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the days and times when Voice for the Stage I, Movement I, and Design Collaboration Project are held?
What does 'Archive' refer to in this context?
When was the Men's Tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Mary Washington held?
What resources are available in the Main Office of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the title of the Master's Project course?
What are the dates and times for class 90805?
What are the days and times when Shaping Time in Performance is held?
Are pass/fail grades allowed in courses used to fulfill a degree requirement?
 What is the maximum relative difference in BC column concentration between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component BC retrieval?
What are the names of the courses taught by Arscott B and Byrne in MM 312 at different times?
 Why are approximate fitness measurements not appropriate in the mobile domain?
What kind of relationship does a faculty advisor have with each student?
What is the date of the West Virginia Stan Romanoski Open?
When does Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2): VAR Directing take place on Wednesday?
What is the name of the course taught by Randall at HOA 223 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the primary objective when developing automatic speech recognition systems?
 What aspect of NAR models is investigated in the text?
What is the purpose of providing shared office space for full-time students in the LTI’s MIIS program?
Where can you find information about accidents that occur on CMU property?
What are the course codes, titles, days, times, and locations of the courses taught by Nock?
How did Berliner treat his students, according to Palay?
When and where does Everyday Learning: Designing Learning Experiences in Times of Unrest & Uncertainty take place?
Who teaches the classes in the text?
Who needs to complete Form I-9 at CMU?
Who are the instructors for the 'They Came as Romans: Roman Civilization 360' course?
What are the locations, times and subjects of Robinson's classes?
What is the typical outcome for MCDS graduates after completing the program?
What are the time slots for the production preparation of Love and Money?
What are the names of the courses that start at 11:00 AM on Monday through Friday?
Where can students find information about shuttle and escort schedules?
 What toolkit was used for ASR fine-tuning evaluation?
What is the course name for Computer Science 15442?
Can you attend these events in person?
What are the names of the production preparation classes for Ottone in Villa?
What are the course codes for Machine Learning 10301 and Machine Learning 10601?
How many credits are awarded to 'Special Topics: Applied Python for Engineers'?
What are LTI academic policies according to the text?
How many floors is Warner Hall at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is the research in psychology practicum located?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
What is the semester for Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
What are the days, times, and instructors for the classes held in room HBH 1204?
How can students log into their account on the LTI's website?
When does the Professional and Technical Writing course take place?
 What was found to show gains in combining the Entity Centrality information with the original BERT ranking in the experiments?
What is the name of the course being taught by Blackwood at 09:00AM - 11:50AM on this day?
 How does OpenMatch-v2 handle searching on large IR datasets with limited resources?
 What is the purpose of blind deconvolution in the context of unsupervised neural speech separation?
Where and when does Physics First Year Seminar: VAR Black Holes take place?
Who teaches 'Teaching Apprentiship - French A' and 'Guided Research'?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
What are the names of the teachers and their respective subjects in Pittsburgh?
Where can students find the list of printers provided by SCS Computer Facilities?
What is the office location of Aayush Ahuja, Lakshay Arora, Siddhant Arora, Harshith Arun Kumar, Dhruv Arya, and Mur?
Who are the instructors of Societal Computing Graduate Reading and Research?
What are the dates and times of the production preparation sessions for Macbeth?
Who teaches Instructor TBA's class in DH A200 on TR at 10:00AM - 10:50AM?
What is the title of the course taught by Ojeda, Manriquez, Kim, Carver, Dueck?
What is the location of the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Clarinet?
What are the class names and their respective instructors for the classes held on Friday at MM 211 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the instructors of Societal Computing Graduate Reading and Research?
 How was the synthesized speech data adapted for the ACL talks?
 What are some examples of open-source datasets expanded for the CHiME-7 DASR challenge?
What is the course being offered at 08:30AM - 06:00PM on CMU REMOTE?
What is the phone number for contacting the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the class that Handel teaches at PH 125B on Monday from 09.30 AM to 11.50 AM?
What is transferring out of the MLT program mentioned in section 5.1.8?
 What are the two significant challenges posed by the development of multilingual dialogue systems?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Croft at 4:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
What is the purpose of designating an emergency contact address on SIO?
Who are the instructors listed in this text who teach at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and their respective courses?
What is the name of the course offered by Professor Werner at 12:30PM - 01:50PM on Tuesdays?
How can someone join the Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete Alumni Mentoring Program?
Why is it important for student-athletes to feel welcomed and supported by the environment at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course code and location of User-Centered Research and Evaluation B?
What are the consequences if a student does not purchase or waive the required health insurance at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is used as a benchmark for evaluating and correcting model simulations in the study?
How many students are mentioned in this text?
Who was George Pake, according to the text?
 What does ACSM primarily measure in relation to particles?
What is the name of each scenic design session for 'A Little Night Music'?
Who is teaching the 'Introduction to Information Security' class that starts at 7:00 PM on Monday and Wednesday in room HH B131?
 What method does GRU4Rec use to model user-item interaction sequences for recommendation?
What is the name of the class taught by Hanington at 7:00 PM on Monday in MM 121?
What was the purpose of using robots in the cleanup process at Three Mile Island?
Who are the three main groups listed under 'People' on this website?
What is the course code for Organic Chemistry of Polymers?
What is the name of the course that focuses on Keyboard Studies for graduate students taught by Larocca?
What are the names of the courses offered by the Information Networking Institute that have a duration of 0-42 hours?
 Which software was used for statistical analysis in the study?
Why are many CAPTCHA implementations vulnerable?
What is the topic of Baird's proposal preparation mentioned in the text?
What are the courses taught by Weinberg for Reasoning with Data 36200 and Methods for Statistics & Data Science 36226?
 What generation parameters are used for prompting GPT-3.5 in self-play data generation described in A.4?
What is the purpose of Graduate Women's Gatherings (GWGs) initiative?
When does the class 'Body Politics: Women and Health in America' start and end?
Who teaches Advanced Academic Skills for Engineers I at CMR F309 in Kigali, Rwanda?
What are the units of Internship (MS & PhD) 48704?
 How is the reading cost controlled in the comparison scheme?
What is the purpose of the University Policy on Grades for Transfer Courses?
What are the names of the instructors for Directed Research B?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What are the course codes and instructors for Topics in Research (03391) and Cancer Biology (03412)?
What is the purpose of CMU Alert?
What is the name of the channel that posted the video?
What is the role of Block in the given schedule?
 How is classical acoustic modeling typically based on?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
When and where is the Thesis 1-99 taking place?
Who was named UAA Athlete of the Week in this text?
What is the purpose of the Language Technologies minor?
What are the names of all three main libraries at Carnegie Mellon?
Where can I find more information about FedEx, copy centers, printing and mailing services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the location of the event?
What does the institution provide through Learning Support?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study courses 90974 and 90985?
What are the class timings for Model Minorities: Race, Rhetoric, & Identity in Asian America?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What is the name of the production preparation course that starts at 8 PM?
 What is the main focus of the research and development efforts on large language models (LLMs) that have been discussed in the text?
 What is the first step in the two-stage training approach mentioned in the text?
Where and when is the Products Design Fundamentals class held?
Where can you find more information about Language Technologies Institute at CMU?
 Why is segmentation an important challenge in speech translation datasets?
What is the primary purpose of research at Carnegie Mellon University?
 Why did the AOD increase at high particle concentrations?
What is the name of Logan's first class and when does it meet?
What is the course title of the class held by Crane at WEH 7500?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
Who is the instructor for Merrell's Intermediate Studio: Photography course and what are the days and times it is held?
What is required for the discovery, advancement, and communication of knowledge?
What are the names of the speakers for Composition for Theatrical Sound Design, and what time does it start?
What is the course code for Fundamentals of Business and Management at INI DEC in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes of Yaron's classes?
What did Kasparov claim he saw behind Deep Blue's moves?
What is the name of the course that starts at 08:00PM and is taught by Durdaller, Murphy, Williams in room WEH 5409?
How many football highlights videos are there in total?
What is the expedited admissions process for students requesting transfer into the MIIS program?
What is the contact information of the Language Technologies Institute at CMU?
 How does the model learn to process images according to the text?
What services does OIE provide?
Why are most CAPTCHA scripts found freely on the Web vulnerable?
What is the theme of the Exploratory project 'Signo'?
What is the name of the hotel that is 4 miles away from CMU's campus?
What are the names of the authors who conducted research in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for Research Training: Writing in Statistics: VAR Research Training Stats?
When is the class 'Logic and Proofs' held?
What position does Chase Collignon play?
What is the instrument of Major Studio for Shields, Houlik and Caballero?
 How long does it take to train the path reranker for HotpotQA?
 What is the title of reference 10 in the text?
What are the dates and times of IDeATe: Soft Fabrication Skills?
What are the days and times of the directing class for 'Ottone in Villa'?
 What is the hope regarding the findings of the study?
What are the course codes and instructors' names for the Mayshle courses?
What are the course codes of all courses offered on Fridays?
What are the class times for Special Topics in Design?
 When was Lakewood construction completed?
Who is the instructor for the course 'Guided Research in Information Systems'?
 What is the hyper-parameter beta used for in the full optimization loss equation?
What is the course code for AI in Business Modeling taught by Farag in San Jose, California?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
Why is it beneficial for students not to switch advisors late in their graduate studies?
What is the title of the paper presented by M. Conway in 1971?
Who teaches the course 'Race, Gender, and Justice'?
When does the 'Statistical Models of the Brain' class take place?
What does the 'Apply' button lead to?
Who teaches Costume Design?
What are the research interests of Daphne Ippolito?
 What is the computation performed by the mixture-constraint loss (MC)?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
What is the contact information for University Police Department?
 How are the actual number of filter taps (A and B) defined in the FCP process?
What is the title of the course about Technology in the United States?
Can I submit an expired TOEFL if my undergraduate degree and master's degree are from a non-U.S. institution?
 Why are diffusion-based methods inefficient in inference?
What is the purpose of the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion according to the text?
Is it possible for some transfer credit or exemption from MCDS requirements on a case-by-case basis?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses taught by Garlan Kang?
Who is the instructor for Costume Design?
What is the purpose of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University according to their mission statement?
 What is the main task of the SELF-REFINE system mentioned in the text?
What are the key skills that students will learn in their coursework?
What is the name of the graduate department in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University?
 Why does FROMAGe outperform CLIP when greater context is provided?
Who is the instructor for Elective Studio (Tuba) and what are their initials?
Who are the collaborative piano instructors at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:30 AM on Monday and Wednesday?
What are the course codes for Deep Learning Systems: Algorithms and Implementation, Convex Optimization: Theory and Applications?
What are the names of the instructors for Eurhythmics I?
What is the name of the class that starts at 2:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday in GHC 5222?
What are the days and times when Cryptocurrencies, Blockchains and Applications is offered?
 What are the two outcomes domains developed in the psychosocial HRQOL area?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
How can the student-athlete population at Carnegie Mellon contribute to diversity and change in athletics?
What are students encouraged to do if they need help with locating specific resources at the library?
 For the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), what is x in the optimization objective equation?
What are the course codes for Topics in French and Francophone Studies: Remaking Culture: Hollywood's Obsession with French Cinema and Advanced Research in German Literature and Culture?
Who is directing for VAR Directing A course?
Who teaches the Seapower and Maritime Affairs course?
What is the location of the seminar that starts at 12:30PM on Tuesdays?
What is the course title that starts at 12:30 PM on Tuesdays in room PH 226C?
What is the name of the course taught by Halilaj in the given text?
What is the course code for Mcgowan's Intermediate Stained Glass class?
What is the name of the course being taught by Schafer in Pittsburgh?
What is the name of the people who will be teaching History Proficiency I and II Tests?
How much do adults pay to attend a CMU football game?
When is the Production Prep: Gloria session for Scenic Design scheduled to take place?
What are the two timing options for completing the degree program?
What is the location where these courses will be held?
What are the expectations for students attending LTI Orientation?
 What is the purpose of unsupervised multilingual text pretraining as described in the text?
What is the name of the person mentioned in this text?
 What pollutants increased along with the PM2.5/CO ratio?
What technologies does the author use to adapt, extend, and apply machine learning and text mining?
What is the purpose of CMU’s Guidance for Completing the Form I-9 and E-Verify?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
Who are the faculty members mentioned in this text?
What are the three Capstone courses that all MCDS students must take?
What are the names of the instructors for Volleyball A3?
Name three different organizations mentioned in the text.
 Describe the image in detail.
What are the names and locations of all classes taught by Thiessen?
What is the course name for Bustamante's class?
What is the purpose of extensive research conducted by students after completing most of their academic requirements?
What did Michael Loren 'Fuzzy' Mauldin mean by aligning his ducks?
What is the name of the class that starts at 9:00 AM and ends at 3:36 PM?
What kind of services are provided by Health Services at CMU?
 How are efficiency metrics like wall-clock latency and energy usage incorporated into neural architecture search?
 What methodology is used to prompt the LLM for rephrasing sentences to keep the meaning intact and choose different words for low-regard words?
What are the three FCT International Partnerships?
 What test datasets are used for evaluating the system?
What is the location of the Raponi Music Education Composition Concert?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
What is the course code for Interpreting Global Texts & Cultures?
What is the course code for Introduction to Accounting?
 How many datasets and languages does GlobalBench cover?
What is the location of Business Leadership Endeavor III A2 R?
What is the course code for The Innovation Trials?
 What is the focus of current research with dense retrieval methods?
What are the names of the courses taught at CMR F203 on B3 TR?
Are there any exceptions to free admission for athletics competitions?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Media Design?
What are the instructors' names for Topics in Research 1-2 and Undergraduate Research 1-18?
What is the role of acknowledging creativity in others?
 What is the benefit of using FCP over time-domain Wiener filtering in terms of computational expense?
What is the schedule of the course 'Lear Stage Management'?
Who is the instructor for the Trombone class at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course for Bagpipe Construction?
What does CMU's career and professional development model rely on?
 How does lexiprecision address the lack of sensitivity of reciprocal rank?
Where can Master’s students find the CS user id and access the LTI computer cluster?
Who are the instructors teaching Designing Human Centered Software classes at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the first author listed?
 What is the page range of the first paper?
When is You Are Here: Identity & Place held?
 Which diffusion steps and number of samples are considered a good balance between exploration and exploitation for discrete DIFUSCO models?
Where is the Introduction to Mathematical Concepts course held?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
Who is teaching the course 'How Things Can Be Made'?
What are the dates and times of the Production Management course?
 How many languages are included in the MABL dataset?
What is the name of the course taught by Bevins at TBA G1 TR 02:00PM - 03:45PM and Management Presentations D1 MW 04:00PM - 05:45PM?
When listing my programs on the application, how will this order affect my admission to each program?
What is the main focus of the Human-Centered Data Science (HCDS) concentration?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered in Institutions of the Roman Church?
 What is the purpose of the central mediator in the system architecture?
What is the latest news from LTI?
What are the names of the instructors listed in the text?
 What should inform the filtering strategy for toxicity identification?
What are the course names, instructors and timings for EPP Internship in University Teaching?
Who was one of the most important contributors to the area of PCPs and hardness of approximation?
What are the names of the two people teaching the 'Dance Lighting Design 2' course?
Does Carnegie Mellon extend certain benefits to domestic partners of students?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 09:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room NSH 3002?
What are the course codes for the three classes starting at 9.0 A MWF?
Where and when is the Project Olympus Open House?
What are the days and times for Student Taught Courses (StuCo): Intro to Rust Lang 3.0?
What is the course code for Negotiation?
What are the names of the three independent study courses offered at this school according to the given information?
What is the main achievement mentioned in the article about Tartans' performance during Fall Semester?
How can someone log into their Facebook account according to the instructions given on the page?
What is the Student Activities Fee used for?
Who is the instructor for BC?
Name a large-scale multi-media analysis course that starts at 5:00 PM on Monday.
What is the phone number of Amber Vivis?
What is the name of the institution that offers this program?
Where can one find more information about the Carnegie Mellon Code?
What is the course name and credit hours for the course offered by Instructor TBA D?
What is required for a public announcement before the defense?
What are the locations, times and subjects of Mun's classes?
What are the main categories of programs offered by the university's School of Computer Science?
When does Caballero's literature and repertoire event take place?
What type of laptop is required for Master’s students?
What is the source of information for deadlines for doctoral course sections?
 How is the overall RepBias score computed in the evaluation of representational bias?
What is the title of Sandholm's E course?
Where and when does Moufid teach Topics in Arabic Media?
What should be done if a student leaves to pursue another academic program before completing MCDS degree requirements?
 What are the main findings regarding the performance of PaLM-2 models when using AUTOMQM?
What instrument does Sullivan, Shields play in the Advanced Music Studies Studio in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who should a student discuss any such electives in advance with?
 How do the semantics of the ⟨b⟩ label differ between RNA and RNN-T models?
Who teaches Advanced Pipeline Topics for Film and Game Art at the Pittsburgh campus?
What is the instructor for Production Prep: Costume Design with Mr. Burns?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the name of the course taught by Williams again?
 What are some components involved in the framework overview diagram provided in the text?
When did Shafi Goldwasser receive her Weizmann Institute Levenson Prize in Mathematics?
What is the purpose of section 6.7 in this text?
What is Carnegie Mellon's Grading policy?
In which building does Werner teach his Proof Theory class in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the music studies studio mentioned in the text?
Who are the instructors for the Dalcroze Eurhythmics Workshops held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What kind of programs do the techniques currently perform well on?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep SOM 3?
Where is the Stop-Motion Animation class held?
What are the course codes for Junior and Senior BME Research Project?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
When was Edmund Melson Clarke born?
Where can students find detailed consumer information about the university?
What event did the team participate in on Wed, Mar/20 and Fri, Mar/21?
Where is the contact information for Language Technologies Institute located?
What kind of resources does the Veterans and Military Community provide for international military service?
What is the duration of the last class listed in the schedule?
What kind of workshops are offered by the University Libraries?
What does 'capstone' mean in this context?
What is the significance of securing approval from SCS faculty members working in language technologies?
What is the requirement for Machine Learning breadth course?
What are the classrooms where Harmony II and Solfege II classes take place?
Where can students find more information about this university policy?
Where and when will the Innovation in Building AI-Products 3.0 be held?
What is the email address for Ilyas Bankolehameed?
 Why is the SemanticKITTI → SemanticSTF benchmark considered challenging?
How many people are involved in each session's preparation according to the given schedule?
 What is the difference between major and minor errors in the annotation process?
 Which task has the highest estimated overall demographic and linguistic global average?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
What day of the week are both events taking place?
 How does Zhou et al. (2019) extend the multi-task training approach?
How many classes are there in total for this series?
What are the classrooms where Solfege II and Eurhythmics IV take place?
What is the name of the instructor teaching the course at TBA A M 07:00PM 08:15PM in Doha, Qatar?
 How is FedEP different from prior works applying EP to federated learning?
What is the 'full Raj' embrace according to Jim Morris?
Who teaches Special Topics: Maker Series: Intro to Laser Cutting & Engraving on Wednesday from 04:00PM-05:50PM in HH C101, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the dates and times of the C section of Production Management?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Movement I at PCA 306?
 What is the role of template-based data processing in OpenMatch-v2?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What are the class names and days for Massaro N4?
What are the course codes for Machine Learning 10301 and Machine Learning 10315?
What are the days and times that class 17423 - Designing Large-scale Software Systems is offered?
What is the course code for Blum's Large Format Photography: The Antiquarian Avant-Garde?
When is Literature and Repertoire: 3-6?
What are the dates and times of the VAR Directing course?
Who did Shafi Goldwasser work with on transformative cryptographic work?
When and where does Mechanical Engineering Study Abroad take place?
What are the interdisciplinary programs in the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition?
When and where are the two sections of Organic Chemistry II offered?
Who is the instructor in Houlik Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)?
Where and when does O’Connor's class take place?
Who manages restricted enrollment in MCDS courses?
 What is the architecture employed by the mDPR model for passage retrieval?
What is the time and location of lecture 9 for course 15251?
When was the next match of Women's Tennis after Thursday, September 13th?
What is the course code for Schlossman's EHPP Capstone Course?
Where did Lecture 6 of Principles of Computing take place?
What are the research areas of Graham Neubig?
 How does the turn-specific entity graph construction begin in the context of conversational search?
What is the course 'French & Francophone Cultures' about?
Where and when was the event held?
Where is Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania located?
Where can students find more information about this requirement?
Can MLT students engage in internships? If so, under what conditions?
Are pass/fail grades permitted in courses used to fulfill degree requirements?
What are the days and times for the Stage Management D class?
What are the department(s) that Teruko Mitamura is affiliated with?
What is the total number of eligible units required for an MSAII degree?
What are the days and times when Foundations of Software Engineering is offered?
What is the name of the category where visitors can find more information?
What is the purpose of the Handbook in the Admissions section of the Master's Program in Language Technologies?
In which room are the courses Entertainment Technology, IDeATe: Little Games/Big Stories: Indie Roleplaying Game Studio and IDEATE Storytelling Through Effects Animation held?
What are Louis-Philippe Morency's research areas?
How long has Carnegie Mellon University been offering computer science programs?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Introduction to Philosophy in lecture 3?
When and where is the Information Systems First Year Colloquium held?
What is the purpose of GSA’s recent actions?
What is the name of the department that provides health services to university students?
What is the course duration for each activity in the given text?
What is the title of the course taught by Mcgowan at 9:30 AM on Tuesdays and Wednesdays?
What are the consequences of not adhering to these standards?
 According to the text, what percentage of instances of users abandoning applications and bad reviews were due to poor performance in Android apps?
Who teaches the course titled 'Special Topics in ICT: Business Fundamentals for Engineers'?
What are the names of the two dialects and accents classes listed in this schedule?
Who teaches Latin American Comics Archive?
 What is the challenge associated with learning 3D point clouds of adverse conditions?
When and where does Advanced Computer Vision start?
What is the location of Dreher's class in Doha, Qatar?
What is the role of the Program Director when considering a transfer request from a student?
 What is the reason for the degradation in OWSM v3 on LibriSpeech and WSJ?
 What does reference [12] focus on?
Where does the eighth class take place and who teaches it?
When and where is Introduction to Parallel Computing and Scientific Computation held?
What criteria will be used for selection to the Athletics Hall of Fame?
 What is the ultimate goal of simultaneous speech translation (SST) according to the text?
What are the days and times when 'Foy Career & Professional Development for Engineering Masters Students' is held?
How many units are required to complete a semester in the MCDS program?
What is the course code for Beginning Piano Practicum I?
What is the 'Grandfather' policy?
What is the name of the course that teaches Alexander Technique for Musicians?
What are the names of the courses offered by Rosenberg Munoz at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How are adjacency states along an episode represented in the latent space?
 What is one suggested research direction related to dynamical systems and deep neural models?
 What are patients in the context of the text?
 How is the spatial resolution of pixel-wise embeddings set in CAG and SAC?
 Why do previous works in the field of S2ST incorporate TTS systems?
What does GSA maintain for graduate students at CMU?
What are students required to do in their first semester of the MCDS program?
When and where is Chemical Engineering 1 being held?
 What is the beam size used during inference?
What are the course titles, days of the week, times, and locations for lecture B on Monday from 7:00 PM to 8:20 PM?
When and where is the MSE Capstone Course I held?
What are the names of the two Directed Study courses mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the courses being taught in the given schedule?
Where can students find their assigned HUB Assistant Director?
What is the course code for 'CIT Honors Research Project'?
Who is the instructor for Physics I for Engineering Students held by Khanal C?
When did undergraduate degrees begin to be offered solely in computer science at CMU?
What are some other offices or organizations that the Graduate Education Office partners with to support graduate students?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in PTC 5208 on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
Where can students find information about LTI Orientation according to this text?
What is the name of the hotline mentioned under Carnegie Mellon Ethics?
What is the location of the Multi Media course offered on Wednesday evenings?
How many instructors are listed in the text?
What is the maximum length of time allowable for master's degree completion and certification?
What are the course codes for Black and White Photography II, Portrait Photography, Introduction to Solid Miniatures, and Introduction to Hot Glass I?
What is discussed in section 3.1 of the text?
What does the term 'grading standards' refer to?
Who are the teachers of the two courses taught at 10:00AM - 11:50AM on Tuesdays in PTC 5208?
What is the course code for Introduction to Decision Analytics and Systems?
What are the class times and location of 'Cybersecurity Policy and Governance' course?
What are the days and times of the sound design class for 'Ottone in Villa'?
What is the location of the Software Engineering Graduate Reading & Research course?
What is Vania Taylor's schedule for the next day?
What are the course codes and instructors for Dance I classes?
What are the names of the locations for Internship One and Internship Two for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD Students?
 What is the main difference observed between the filter lengths of UNSSOR and iRAS?
What time does the 'Digital Photography I' course start and end?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Market Engineering and Applications'?
What are the names of the two courses being taught by Fadlallah and Sharma?
What are the days and times when the 'Space Robotics' course is held?
Who should students contact for questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint?
Who teaches the classes that start at 9:30 AM and end at 12:20 PM?
What is the name of the course for Introduction to Probability Theory?
What is the course code for 'Changes in Japan 2: Lifestyle/Religion and Gender'?
What are the course codes for Supervised Reading in Condensed Matter Physics, Mathematical Physics, Classical Physics, Quantum Physics and Practicum in Physics?
What is the name of the course taught by Howard B?
What is the name of the university mentioned in this handbook?
 What types of results are presented in Tables 16-27?
What is the course title for Aguiar 76460 and Aguiar 76461?
When does the class 'Advanced Topics in Global LGBTQ+ History' start and end?
What does the roster refer to in this context?
What is the location and time of Bourcart's lecture for Special Topics in Integrated Systems Technology?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday from 4:00 PM to 4:50 PM in POS 152?
 What is the learning rate used for training the NQ model?
Who are the instructors mentioned in this text?
 What type of data was used in the experiments?
What did Scott think about the relationship between Computer Science and Mellon College of Science?
Who is the instructor for 'Production Prep: Mr. Burns Production Management'?
What are the days of the week when each course held at CMU REMOTE is taught?
What does Alexander Hauptmann research in the field of Multimodal Computing and Interaction?
What is the name of the person who teaches the lecture titled 'Democracy and History: Thinking Beyond the Self' on Monday and Wednesday from 12:00 PM to 12:50 PM?
What are the responsibilities of each department during Production Prep for John Proctor?
What are the days and times of Shakespeare's courses?
In which room does the 'Fake News' class take place?
What is the purpose of section 4.4 in this text?
Who teaches the course 'Software Engineering Independent Study K'?
How can students, faculty and staff report suspected violations of university policy or law anonymously?
What does the Master's in Intelligent Information Systems degree focus on?
What is the name of the course taught by Brown in PCA 305 at 2:00 PM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
Does Carnegie Mellon extend benefits to domestic partners of students?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
Where is 'Machine Learning in Practice' held?
What are the options available on the Connect page of the website?
Which team had a better record in the UAA conference: Carnegie Mellon or Case Western Reserve?
What is the role of 'across teams' socializing in Queer Athlete and Ally Collective (QAAC)?
Who was the speaker at this event?
When does Professor Weber's 'Neural Engineering Laboratory 12.0 Lec M' class take place?
What is the URL to access Carnegie Mellon University's Academic Integrity Website?
What did Whittaker assemble his team of students to build in the 1980s?
What happens if a student fails to meet the goals set by their academic advisor during probation?
Who are the performers in Chamber Music: Woodwind and Mixed 3.0?
What are the course codes for the courses offered by Brown and Shumway?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study VAR?
Where is Professor Altschuler's office located?
What is the name of the course offered by Ramdas in the Statistics Departmental Seminar?
 What model has been the dominant model for both 10-minute and 1-hour datasets in the LID task?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered at different times on a given day?
Who is the instructor for the course 'Framing Proposals for Change'?
 How does KALE complement existing sparse representations, according to the text?
What event was covered in the article on Feb 24?
 How is the yellow boat positioned in relation to the white yacht in the image?
What happens if an application for the MCDS program is incomplete?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Sirbu?
When are Lec 2 and Lec 3 of the Introduction to Deep Learning course held?
 What does the text mention as the reason that humans can navigate outdoor environments with ease despite their challenges?
What is the name of the student who participated in Independent Study 1-24 with Instructor Mertz?
Who teaches this course, according to the schedule entry?
What services does Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) provide for students at CMU?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches at QQ in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When is the next news update on Carnegie Mellon University Sports Medicine?
What year was the person born in, according to the text?
What is the course code for Beginning Fiction Workshop?
What is the course 'Advanced Arabic II' about?
What is the William D. Ford Direct Loan Program?
What are the days and times of M.S. Project 0-99?
 What is the focus of this text?
What are the names of the people listed in the text?
Where are the independent studies located in Pennsylvania?
What is the URL of the Veterans and Military Community website on the Carnegie Mellon University website?
How many seniors are on the roster for the 2023-24 Tartan Men's Basketball team?
Where can students go for enrollment verification?
What was the date of the graduate recital?
What is the course code for Early Christianity?
Who is Rwanda Singh?
What was the outcome of the recent news about Women's Swimming and Diving?
What event was covered in the article on Feb 24?
 How does the COS model outperform previous baselines on OTT-QA?
What is the name of the course that starts at 02:00 PM on Friday in WEH 8427?
When were the Kenyon Fast Chance meetings held?
 What was the length of the drift tube in the gas phase–ion mobility spectrometry unit?
What is the purpose of the 'two strikes' rule in MCDS?
What is the name of the person who teaches at BA?
Who is teaching the Sound Forum class?
Who are the authors of this text?
Can you identify any other details about these instructors, such as their roles or responsibilities?
What is the course 17-762 about?
What are the two time slots for Production Prep at Carnegie Scenic?
 What additional information is used to calibrate the reward signals in the Factually Augmented RLHF algorithm?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Introduction to Structures?
Where can students find more information about employer reimbursement process?
 How does the given model encode an input sequence that is longer than the model’s context window?
What is the name of Gatti Dura's course?
What are the days and times when Laird teaches his/her classes?
When and where does the Modern Languages Undergraduate Internship take place?
What are the typical course unit requirements for MLT students?
 What advantage did the proposed method show in terms of computational speed?
What is the topic of Hsieh's IDeATe: Experimental Sound Synthesis?
Who was Carnegie Mellon playing in their second final match?
What is the course name and instructor of 'Supervised Reading 3-12'?
What are the names of the courses mentioned in the text?
When is Garrod and Blelloch's class D held at GHC 4101?
What are the course codes and titles of the three lighting courses?
Do students need approval from their Program Director before taking recommended electives outside SCS?
Where is the Introduction to Flameworking class held?
 What is the maximum stress value reached by S1 among the specimens?
Who teaches the Sound Design class in Production Prep for Lonely Planet?
What were the concerns of Computer Science department when they sat on Mellon College of Science council?
When does the organization start accepting financial fee waiver requests for the 2023-2024 Application Season?
What is the name of the course with the course code 10615?
 What was the threshold set for all experiments in terms of benchmarks?
What are the course codes and instructors for the two chemistry courses offered in Doha, Qatar?
What is the name of the school mentioned in this text?
Who is the instructor for Mechanical Engineering 24391 and what are its credits?
What were some of the large projects that emerged in the Computer Science Department at CMU?
What is the course code for Zhang's Intermediate Chinese class?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
 What is the benefit of the TDT model predicting token durations during inference?
What is the instructor's name for each course at thematics 2.0?
Who should students consult with as they begin making plans regarding time away?
What is the role of student organizations, Undergraduate Student Senate, and Graduate Student Assembly in providing support at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Convex Optimization?
Where is the Analytical Techniques class held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
According to the text, what is the main objective of the program in two phases?
What are the days and times of the class 'Gadgets, Sensors and Activity Recognition in HCI'?
What are the days and times of Special Topics: Trustworthy AI Autonomy A MW 03:30PM 04:50PM PH 100 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where can graduate students find information about financial aid?
What is the location of the study abroad program held in room TEP 5200 at different times?
Does the CMU Student Insurance Plan cover nurse visits as well?
What are the credits and schedule for INI Project/Thesis Research?
 What led to the relationship between (D75 − D25)/D50 and D50 deviate from satisfactory fitting under high PM2.5 concentration and high RH conditions?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
 According to the text, how is the behavior of in-context learning for reference-based and reference-less evaluation tasks?
What are the production preparation sessions for Media Design?
 What technique was used to generate speech from the predicted mel-spectrogram in this study?
What does the text suggest about the progression of research?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor Gongora-Svartzman in class A301?
What are the days and times of Statistical Graphics and Visualization class?
What are the course names, instructors, and time slots for the courses offered at 03:30 PM on Wednesday?
What is the penalty if a Masters student violates the double-dipping policy?
When and where is HyperSENSE: Augmenting Human Experience in Environments taught?
Who is the instructor for Physics II for Engineering and Physics Students?
What is the exceptional admission requirement?
What is the course code for Tutoring for Community Outreach?
What happens when obligations undertaken by individuals are not met?
Why do you think the SMART programs are essential?
 How much does the 0-shot model cost?
What is the location of Le Goues and Kaestner's Machine Learning in Production class?
 What should be added to the Machboos before serving it?
What kind of assistance does the university offer to support student's physical fitness?
 What is the condition for a list to be considered increasing according to the text?
Who was the performer for the fourth piece in the Major Studio (Double Bass) category?
What is the course code for Practicum in Dissertation Research?
In what city does Lam teach Cognitive Neuroscience Research Methods?
Where does Shaikh teach 'Time Series Forecasting in Python' class?
How do students receive additional information about the various types of funding during a consultation meeting with a member of the Dean of Students team?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches at Z TBA DNM DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course that teaches about Research Practicum in EPP?
Who are the instructors for 'Elective Studio (Violin)' and what are its timings?
 What does Fig. 3(a) show after all SMs are blocked?
 What was found to be incredibly effective for achieving good performance according to the study?
What is the meaning of 'concave mark' mentioned in Vladimir Nabokov's quote?
Is PCHE course counted towards full-time status?
 What does PL stand for in Table 7?
 What is one of the prominent properties shared between E2E and classical statistical ASR systems?
 Who are the individuals acknowledged for their guidance in the study?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses listed in this text?
What is transfer credit and how does it differ from course exemption?
Where are the LTI mailboxes, printers, copiers and other departmental resources located?
What is the location of the Photovoltaic Systems Engineering class?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Mani at TEP 2111?
 What is the impact of low-rank activations on sparsiﬁcation-based compression algorithms?
What is the name of the course where students can learn about the history of the piano?
What are the course codes for Masters Report and Masters Report?
When is 'Reading in Forms: Poetry' class held?
 What design paradigms do neural network frameworks generally fall into?
Why is it rare for a student's life in an academic community not affecting others?
 What does the darker green points in Figure 4 correspond to?
 What does R2X (2) = 0.13 indicate about the model samples?
Where can you find information about Athletic/Fitness Facilities?
What is the email address of the LTI webmaster?
What are the locations for the Internship courses in this schedule?
 What framework is used to assess the system in different aspects and log the results?
What is the title of another course taught by Rawn?
What are the names of the two speakers in the Building Performance Modeling session?
 What percentage of nasal washes from pig farm workers in Sarawak, Malaysia had inﬂuenza D virus genomes detected?
What is the name of the second author listed in this article?
What is the purpose of GSA at CMU?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor at W 05:00PM 06:50PM TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the office location of Amber Vivis?
What is the name of Gloria's class in Theater Management?
 What does the text suggest about the importance of metrics with an emphasis on factual content?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section in the text?
How did DARPA funding at CSD increase?
What are the days and times of Logan B.'s Voice and Speech II class?
When is the Tiger Invitational 'B' Team playing?
What are the course names and their respective credit hours for Berges 12760, Berges 12768, and Dayal 12775?
What is the purpose of the library liaisons?
Where was Dr. Newell born?
 What is the role of the middle model in the training procedure of the E2E SLU model?
What is the Carnegie Mellon University's statement on discrimination?
 Which metric achieves the highest correlation with human preference according to the text?
What is the purpose of the committee for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion in the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the title of the seminar that will be held by Farimani at WEH 4623 in Pittsburgh?
What is the purpose of section 6.17 in the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the 'Grandfather' policy in LTI academic policies?
What are the course titles for each section of the schedule?
When and where does Cultural Roots: Chinese Language & Culture for Heritage Learners take place?
What are the instructors' names for Mayshle courses B2, C2, D2, F2, and G2?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the Graduate Molecular Biology course?
Where is the class 'Special Topics: Phase Relations and Phase Diagrams in Magnetoceramics' held?
How many sessions are there in total in the given schedule?
What is the course code of Probabilistic Graphical Models taught by Risteski and Gu?
How many teams participated in the Golfweek Invitational 'A' Team?
What is the course code, title, instructor's name, and meeting time of the lecture that takes place on Sunday from 7:00 PM to 9:50 PM?
How many sessions are provided by SI program?
When did the NCAA Outdoor Championships take place?
 According to the text, what is proposed as a novel prompting technique for interpretable machine translation evaluation using LLMs?
What is the main topic of this article?
Who are the instructors teaching Lighting Design (I)?
What is the name of the instructor teaching 'Wanderlust: Art and Nature'?
Who teaches Furniture Design II on Tuesday from 02:00 PM to 04:50 PM in room PH A27?
 What does AdaSpeech aim to achieve?
 What metrics are used to measure the performance of bi-encoder and cross-encoder in Table 5?
Where is Evidence-Based Educational Design being taught?
 What is plotted in Figure 22a?
Which office handles computing and information resources in the university?
What are the different sections available on this page according to the navigation menu?
What should applicants do if they want to apply for this program?
When does Statistical Computing (course code 36650) meet?
 Why was it necessary to manually construct unit tests for every benchmark in the experiments?
 What are the two linguistic formalisms used in the study to evaluate and compare their impact?
Who teaches Directed Study II?
What is the name of the Production Prep course for Lighting Design I and Media Design L courses?
What are the names of the instructors for Eurhythmics II, Solfege III, and Solfege IV courses?
What is the course name of the class that starts at 11:00 AM and is taught by Moseley?
What are the names of all the instructors at the university who teach mathematics?
What is the course name and instructor for Gittis's class?
Where and when does Business Analytics for Managers take place?
What are the course codes for the two Acting III classes?
What are the dates and times of the Modern Biology Laboratory classes taught by Laperuta and Doonan?
 What are the input and output feature spaces for transformer-based g in ORCA?
What is the purpose of the second Masters’ Thesis II course for students who go on to an LTI PhD program?
Who is Florian Metze and what are his roles?
What is the course code for the class listed as '06324'?
 What was found in a study regarding current methods in capturing acoustic parameters?
Where can you find the contact information for Language Technologies Institute?
 How is wind energy potential (WPD) defined in the text?
When does Game Design Fundamentals take place?
What is the cost for applications submitted by November 29, 2023, at 3:00 p.m. EST?
What are the locations of all courses listed in this text?
What are the days and times of each class?
How does one apply for the Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What is the topic of Noel's presentation?
What is the maximum duration for which doctoral students can receive stipend funding during an absence longer than six weeks?
Can a Masters student use courses taken as part of another degree program towards their program requirements without prior approval?
Where is Carnegie Mellon University located?
When and where is the course being offered at HBH 1005 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can you create a drag-and-drop tutor interface using CTAT?
What is the name of the handbook mentioned in the text?
Where does Nelson, Loria-Sklar teach their student-taught course?
 What are the categories of websites selected for implementation in WebArena?
 What do the authors suggest as a solution to the limitation of HuBERT in the text?
 What stress ratios were used in the FEM analysis to study crack propagation?
What are the three types of requirements for completing Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems?
Is it permitted for MIIS students to have a Reduced Course Load?
What happens if a car is parked without a valid permit or at an expired meter?
Who teaches Internet of Things?
What time does the Business of Music class start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When was the match between #31 Brandeis and #14 Carnegie Mellon held?
What is the purpose of the University Libraries at CMU?
What are the requirements for teaching proficiency?
What is the purpose of the Information Desk at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who was honored by the UAA and D3hoops.com on February 13, 2024?
What should I do if I plan to take the TOEFL, IELTS and/or GRE in either November or December?
What is the name of the course that starts at WR 05:00PM - 06:20PM?
Who is responsible for the information provided in this page?
Who is the target audience of this website?
Where is Negotiations taught by Shea held?
What is the title of the ENGAGE in Service course?
What is the course code, title, instructor's name, and meeting time of the lecture that takes place on Friday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What is discussed in section 6.17 of the text?
Are all CMU students eligible for an emergency loan?
What is the purpose of a PhD dissertation?
 What is the OUTDOOR task introduced in the text aimed at?
 What F1 scores did the researchers achieve on passwords and names?
What are the names of the authors who have a TBA for their initials?
 What is the goal of Correlated Generative Knowledge Distillation (CGKD)?
 What is the significance of LLaVA-RLHF?
Who are the instructors for DEI Introductory Course for CS Doctoral Students and Graduate Reading and Research 1-60?
Where can you find more information about the resources available for these issues?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
Can a student receive financial aid and an external fellowship at the same time in Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of this text?
What are the days and times of the Practicum in Mathematical Sciences course?
Why do graduate students need College Liaisons and the Student Support Resources team as resources?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
 What does the paper by Geoffrey Hinton et al. focus on distilling?
Where will the BXA Studio class be held?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is the instructor for Production Prep: Sound Design with Mr. Burns?
What are the satisfactory progress requirements for doctoral students at CMU?
How can one contact the institution for further information or queries?
What are the days and times of the classes in this schedule?
 Why did participants sometimes not empathize with the retrieved stories, especially in the case of the finetuned model?
What are the names of the instructors for Tools for UX Design?
What are the locations of these courses?
According to the policy, what should students do when they face academic challenges?
What is the course code for Chemistry and Light?
What is the purpose of the Office of International Education (OIE) at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the ratio of the Arabic:English:code mix in the pretraining data?
What is the location of the event at 2112?
Can suspended students take courses elsewhere?
 How many repositories were sampled for every programming language in the collaborative software development platform?
What are the names of the instructors for Graduate Independent Study 3-24?
What is the location of the university mentioned in the text?
When and where does Pillai, Satyanarayanan, Vinayak's classes take place?
What is the name of the activity that takes place on Wednesday and Friday evenings from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What are the names of the instructors for You Are Here: Identity & Place?
What is the course 'Music and Interaction' about?
Who teaches Millinery II?
What is the name of the third course mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches 'Understanding Markets for Products & Services'?
 What is done during inference to boost retrieval accuracy by combining different skills?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Honors Thesis I and II at Doha, Qatar?
What are the two time slots for Sound Design K?
What services does Carnegie Mellon offer for community members?
How many units are required for a student to complete their MLT coursework?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study in Information Systems?
What is the main topic discussed in this text?
What is Andrew Girard's title and contact information?
What are the names of the two classes taught by Professor Stern?
What is the name of Stiles and Hsieh's course?
 What are the two types of losses that the distillation trainer in OpenMatch-v2 can use for training models?
Who teaches Conceptual Sound Design and what are the class times?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes offered in this schedule?
When are grade reports mailed to individual students by the university?
 How does Genetic Improvement rely on testing to validate patches?
What are the days of the week and times for class HBH 1007 listed in the schedule?
Why did Simon prefer to remain on the sidelines, as per Jordan's statement?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Tuesdays from 5:30 PM to 7:20 PM in room WEH 7500?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches Independent Study courses in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the 'Project Planning and Reporting' course?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Autonomous Sustainable Buildings: From Theory to Practice'?
Where can students find more information about dining services offered by Carnegie Mellon?
When and where does the Acting for Leadership and Communication course take place?
What are the names of the instructors and their respective courses in the schedule?
 What is the title of the paper written by Kim, H. Lee and G. Kim in 2019?
How many instructors are listed in the given text?
What are the days and times when the class with course code '47760' meets?
 Based on the context provided, would B.A and M.D. link to the same entity’s article on Wikipedia?
Where is the Track and Field event taking place?
What services does the Information Desk at Carnegie Mellon's University Center provide?
What are the three Production Prep sessions for Carnegie Scenic in SOM 2?
 What are some potential benefits of E2E approaches to ASR?
What is the name of the person responsible for production preparation for 'A Doll's House'?
What is the address of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the source of funding for Graduate Student Assembly?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the Stage Management course?
What type of professional development opportunities are available for university staff?
Are pass/fail grades permitted for courses and projects used to satisfy a degree requirement?
What is the URL for the Computing Services website?
 How do most services limit daily usage of tokens in their free tiers?
What is the name of the school that offers Medical Management:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How did the changes in solar PVPOT and WP variabilities differ across different sub-regions during 2040–2049 under carbon-neutral scenarios?
 What does the intersection of the Q2 regression line with the vertical axis being less than 0 indicate?
How does the university plan to cultivate a transformative educational experience for students?
When does LTI Orientation take place according to the handbook?
What was the result of the UAA Championships for the women's cross-country team?
What is the location of 'Cox-Boyd'?
Who are the instructors for EUREKA!: Discovery and Its Impact?
Why was DARPA funding targeted projects instead of general research in computer science?
Who played against Whitman according to the article?
What is the name of the sound design class?
How can students get assistance from Computing Services?
What was the curriculum for computer science students in 1968?
 Why is it important to develop regulations alongside AI technology according to the text?
What are the facilities available in Skibo Gymnasium?
What is the course name and instructor for the course offered on Tuesday and Thursday at 12:00 PM?
Who was named UAA Runner Athlete of the Week on McLaughlin Named UAA Runner Athlete of the Week?
What is the duration of a typical summer vacation for students supported by research projects?
What is the 'Time to Degree' section of the policy for doctoral student status?
What are the days and times when the courses 'Alexander Technique for Musicians', 'Yoga for Musicians', and 'String Quartet: A Social History' are held?
What is the name of the course taught by Davis B at DNM, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What was the Wikimedia quality score used for optimizing work-needed in Task 2?
What are the contact details for University Police?
What are the course names and their respective locations?
 Who characterized influenza virus variants induced by treatment with the endonuclease inhibitor baloxavir marboxil?
Does this institution have any other campuses besides Pittsburgh and Qatar? If so, where is the Silicon Valley Campus located?
What is Maarten Sap's research area?
What are the timings for Calculus II for Biologists and Chemists (21127) at Penn State?
When and where are Special Topics: Integrated Innovation Institute A2 being held?
 What was the result of GSEA performed in the high- and low-CTL groups after the exhaustion biology-related gene panel analysis?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the Carnegie Scenic course?
What was the date of Bucknell Invitational?
What is the website of Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the classes that meet in the evening for 'Penelope'?
What are the course codes for Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Development (Ly), Organic Chemistry of Polymers (Matyjaszewski), and Molecular Modeling and Computational Chemistry (Kurnikova)?
Where and when does Foundations of Computational Data Science take place?
Where does Ren teach his junior BME research project class?
What is the deadline for requesting fee waivers?
Where is ICT Entrepreneurship Seminar held?
What are the names of the three independent study courses in filmmaking?
 What is the significance of the TDT models in the SICSF task?
Are pass/fail grades permitted for courses used to satisfy a degree requirement in MIIS?
How many students are listed in the table?
 What variation in monthly BC column concentration is observed over the Northeast China and East Russia (NCR) region by GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product?
 What do the neural entity-based approaches fall behind in the experimental results and why?
 What method does the text propose to automatically meta-learn the importance weight of each training data for data pruning?
What is the email address of Mona Diab, Director of LTI?
 Are the items mentioned in the content predefined?
Who teaches the IDeATe: Little Games/Big Stories: Indie Roleplaying Game Studio course at DNM in Pittsburgh?
What are the days and times of Media Design L class?
How many players are on the 2023 Tartans Women's Soccer roster?
When does the event at 57948 take place?
Which college did Jose Pablo Leon attend when he was awarded the PAC Men's Tennis Newcomer of the Week?
 What unique features does the StoryQ app offer for young learners?
What are the class locations for Machine Learning Systems, Database Systems, Algorithm Design and Analysis, Undergraduate Complexity Theory, and Computer Science 15455?
Where are the classes held on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 06:30PM to 10:30PM?
What is C.ai and what kind of processor does it have?
What are the class times and locations for Dissertation Research (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Helgeson) and Public Management (School of Pub Pol & Mgt)?
How many reactions were there on this post?
 What percentage of the total life did the maximum difference in fatigue life account for when passing through the corrosion pit?
What is the course code for 'Getting Started in Electronics: An Experiential Approach'?
 How was PAR decoding different from AR decoding in terms of CTC weight calculation?
When and where is 'Special Topics: Music Theater History and Repertoire' offered?
What resources does the Graduate Student Assembly website provide for spouses, domestic partners and families of graduate students?
What is the name of the course that covers Cybersecurity Policy and Governance?
 What is the conclusion regarding the effectiveness of fusion layers in the models?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about human experience in design?
What are the contact details for Kate Schaich?
Who are the instructors for 'Sender: Stage Management'?
 What type of award supported the Bridges2 system used in the research?
What is the course code and instructor for Advanced Data Analysis I?
What are the course codes for Human-Computer Interaction 05120 and IDeATe: Learning in Museums?
What are the objectives of the Doctoral Course according to the text?
 What did the schemes divide each alignment job into in terms of processes?
 Why do some respondents suggest that artifact release should be mandatory for acceptance?
 What did the user7 from Upwork, who was not familiar with Kwak’wala, mention after transcribing a few pages?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Shroff at PH A18C?
Why is safeguarding educational equity important in graduate programs?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
 What is the goal of using the backward algorithm in the text?
 What year was the publication related to the study published?
What are the topics discussed in Product Discovery & Definition A2?
What is the location of each independent study?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button on this website?
Where can I find more information about student and affiliate ID cards?
What are the course codes for the two special topics courses mentioned in this text?
What is the relationship between varsity athletes and Queer Athlete and Ally Collective (QAAC)?
 What substance is less in the W2 sample compared to the other samples in the diﬀerential spectra of Schisandra chinensis branch sap?
 What is the main task of the SigMoreFun submission to the SIGMORPHON 2023 Shared Task?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
What is The Carnegie Mellon Code mentioned in Table of Contents 1?
 Why is a high temperature of 1.0 used in the experiments?
What are the locations for Mobile Application Design and Development courses?
What is the name of the course that teaches Interaction and Expression using the Pausch Bridge Lighting?
Who is this handbook intended for?
What are the locations for Information Systems Internship courses?
 What is the purpose of BERTScore in evaluating machine translation outputs?
What are the names of the professors teaching in 3SC 265 at different times during the day?
What is the location of Kush's Saxophone studio?
What is the office location mentioned in this text for Lei Li?
Who was awarded the ACM Turing Award in 2012?
What are the names and instructors' numbers of the two screenwriting courses being offered?
How many students are enrolled in Independent Study in HCI - Grad?
What is the location of Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline?
What are the days and times for Computer Architecture course taught by Professor Beckmann?
What are the days and times of Quantum Mechanics II class?
What are the days and times for Foundations: Paint/Print?
 What are some approaches proposed to establish benchmark baselines?
 How does restricting the model to output a single non-blank label at each frame improve computational efficiency?
What are the two courses being offered by Hudson in this schedule?
What type of study is Independent Study in History 3-9 B?
Where can students apply for the Emergency Student Loan?
What are the class codes for Business Fundamentals for High Tech Product Management and Data Exploration and Visualization?
What is the purpose of Advising according to the handbook?
Where is the course 'Introduction to Software Engineering' held?
 What is the observed performance drop for the Multi Query Attention (MQA) model compared to the Multi Head Attention (MHA) model?
What is the name of the city where the 'Build Your Own Breadboard Computer' course takes place?
Who are the instructors for Supplementary Readings 3-12 A and History Prospectus 5-36 A?
What is the name of the document where this office's role in supporting research at Carnegie Mellon University is mentioned?
What are the days and times of Quantitative Cell and Molecular Biology Laboratory?
Which team is currently at the top of the standings according to the given standings table?
What are the course names, instructors and timings for EPP Teaching Practicum?
 What additional elements are included in the realistic web environment to encourage human-like task-solving?
 What is the Data Availability Statement for this study?
When was this article written?
Who are the students at Quesenberry's school who have taken Guided Research in Information Systems with Instructor TBA W as their instructor?
What is the location of Electronics for Sensing and Actuation held by Weber in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who needs to demonstrate English proficiency if they will study on an F-1 or J-1 visa and English is not their native language?
What is the course code for 'Simulation Corporate Communications'?
What are the three courses being offered at HL 106C in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the standards of personal conduct expected from students at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors for the Software & Societal Systems course?
What is the name of the class held at CFA M157 on Wednesday from 06:30PM to 09:30PM?
What instrument does Evans, Allen, Branson play in the Advanced Music Studies Studio in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the main point of this text?
Can I work on a master's degree part time?
What are the days and times of Severnini's courses?
Where is Nelson's course located?
Where does Peha teach 'Policies of Wireless Systems' class?
What should students do if they need to miss coursework while on a leave of absence due to pregnancy?
What are the days and times when 'AECM Synthesis Project' is offered?
What is the course code for Introduction to Electrical and Computer Engineering?
What are the days and times of the courses taught by Liu G, Feng K, Newman M, Chiu N, Yang O, Jiang P, Yu R, Xu S, Thornton A, and Gordon B?
What are the days and times of Novack's lecture?
On which day did the Kenyon Fast Chance event take place?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What position does Archie Lawler play?
 Why were run-run differences in HAI titres high despite careful balancing of B lineage viruses?
When and where are Professor Muller, Matthews' courses offered?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's role in educating its students?
Is the GRE required?
What happens if a student does not make satisfactory progress each semester towards completing the degree?
 Which chemical substance is identified as the key flavor substance of Schisandra chinensis dried fruit and branch exudates?
 What are the three training algorithms for multilingual machine translation models?
 What is the title of the paper by Zhiqing Sun, Yikang Shen, Qinhong Zhou, Hongxin Zhang, Zhenfang Chen, David Cox, Yiming Yang, and Chuang Gan published in 2020?
What are the key offices for health, wellness & safety at this institution?
Where did UAA Outdoor Championships take place?
What is the title of Ong's course in Branded Entertainment at NM Los Angeles?
Who is the target audience of this website?
What are the days and times of the Undergraduate Research class?
Who teaches Independent Study at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How is the probability of observing the first u output labels in the first t frames represented in a TDT model?
What is the page number of the text where this information can be found?
 What did the correlation between κ derived from bulk chemical compositions and CCN measurements emphasize in the study?
How many student-athletes from Carnegie Mellon University were named to the College Sports Communicators Academic All-District Team for Division III Men's and Women's Soccer?
What is the location of Su's Elementary Chinese classes at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course offered by Instructor TBA 54609?
What are the names of Caton's classes and when do they meet?
What is the website that provides the Graduate Financial Aid Guide?
What are the locations of the meetings in this text starting with letters A to P?
What are the names of the two production preparation classes for A Little Night Music that start at 11:00 AM and end at 3:00 PM?
What are the three time slots mentioned in the text?
What is Student Review, Academic Probation and Academic Actions about?
Where is Dunigan teaching his classes?
What is the purpose of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the days and times when the 'Human Robot Interaction' course is held?
What is the name of the course taught by Gray B in PH A19?
 What is the focus of the evaluation mentioned in the text?
What is the MLT Graduate Student Handbook?
 What dataset was KALE trained on?
What are the days and times for Phd Econometrics II?
What are some additional resources that Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) may refer a student to?
What are the days and times of the Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems class?
What are the names of the teachers listed in this schedule?
What is the name of the course being taught by Block in Scenic Design Forum?
What should a student do if they decide to withdraw from the MCDS program?
 What is the standard deviation of the inference speed for longer audio compared to AR decoding?
What are the locations and times of the two Business Leadership Endeavor III classes mentioned in the text that take place at TEP 2611?
What degree does the researcher have?
What are the course codes and instructors for Stagecraft: VAR (Scenery) classes?
How many hours is each course worth according to the text?
What is the Department Policy on Double Counting Courses?
What is the course code for Electronic Devices and Analog Circuits?
 What does Table 5 compare the performance of FLARE with?
Where is the class 'Special Topics in Applied Physics: Nonlinear Optics and Photonics' held?
 What is the purpose of using fitness functions in GI according to the text?
What are Scott Fahlman's research interests?
What was the name of the event held on April 14 and 15 for Men's Golf?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday in room DH 2302?
What is the name of the intermediate studio course that focuses on drawing with machines?
According to The Herald article, who scored a last-second bucket for Geneva to send them to the PAC title game?
What is the name of the course for Music Education Thesis and Artist Diploma Studio 3-36 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the title of the paper by Bichen Wu et al.?
 What happens to effective prestress after the secondary transfer of residual prestress due to the fracture of the steel wire strand?
Who can provide an official letter of enrollment for a CMU student?
When does lecture for Microelectronic Circuits: 18320 take place?
What are the class times and locations for Johnson D4?
What are the days and times when course 11490 is offered?
What kind of employment opportunities does Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) prepare students for?
Who teaches Yoga for Musicians class?
What is the role of a student's advisor in end-of-semester evaluation?
Where does the Technology Strategy & Product Management Project take place?
 How many steps were Gitksan models trained for in the submission?
 What is the page range of the second paper?
Who are the instructors for Architecture Design Studio: POIESIS STUDIO 3?
What are the names of the two professors teaching 'Decision Analysis'?
Who are the instructors teaching the elective studios for violin, viola, cello, double bass, guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, and bassoon?
What are the two offices mentioned in section A.1.2 of Appendix A?
Can I transfer into a Ph.D. program from another college/university?
What is cheating according to the policy?
How can someone request an escort from SafeWalk?
What is the name of the class held on Tuesday from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM in room MM 312?
What are the locations mentioned in the text where classes will be held remotely?
What are the days and times for the classes held in room HBH 1002?
Who is teaching the lecture on Special Topics in Arabic Studies at 3:00 PM?
What are the locations of M.S. Graduate Project I and Reading and Research courses?
What is the name of the instructor for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral): 1?
When does the Scenic Design class take place?
What is the focus of LTI's educational programs?
What are the days and times of Graduate Real Estate Development VAR?
Who instructs Design 51052 Domestic Study?
What are the days and times when Pena teaches her Graphic Novel class?
What is the consequence of not identifying conceptual sources in any presentation or work submitted?
What are the names of the courses that teach Machine Learning for Text and Graph-based Mining, Natural Language Processing: Advanced, and Coding & Algorithms Bootcamp?
What is the name of the class that meets on Wednesday evenings from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What is the course code for Law of Computer Technology?
What are students' rights according to this university policy?
 What are the initial values for ij and h0 in the text?
What are the two reasons for which a student can appeal their grade?
 What did Wei et al. (2022a) demonstrate about few-shot exemplars?
 What approach does the text argue would make developers more likely to adopt for improving non-functional properties of Android apps?
When and where is the class 'Production Prep: External Projects: Sound K MTWRF' held?
What are the dates, times, and locations of the Micro Biopharma and Protein-Based Pharmaceuticals seminar?
In what room is van der Sloot's Violin Studio Performance Class held?
Where can students find information about recreation hours at Carnegie Mellon University's swimming and diving facility?
What are the names of the buildings where these courses are being taught?
 What leads to latency bottlenecks regardless of the precision during inference?
Who is listed first in this text?
Where is the text set?
 How is the correlation between each phoneme-AM pair analyzed in the experiment described in the text?
Who is the instructor for Burns' B TBA DNM DNM Topics in Second Language Acquisition: Introduction to Linguistic Data Analysis Using R class?
Where is Stars, Galaxies and the Universe being taught?
What is the course number for 'Translation as a Profession III'?
What is the course code for Introduction to Structures?
What are the course names, instructors and timings for Usable Privacy and Security?
What is the course code for Human AI Interaction?
Where does the 'Role Playing Games Writing Workshop' take place, and what is its duration?
 What improvements do FEDEPTH and m-FEDEPTH achieve on CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 compared to FedAvg?
 How does IPA perform in generating faithful dialogue responses compared to supervised models in the knowledge-grounded dialogue experiment?
What does 'Revised: August 2022' indicate about this document?
 Who funded the projects on which the paper is based?
What is the URL for the University Policies website?
What is the name of the course taught by Freeman A at HOA 160?
 What is the purpose of the LCCC corpus mentioned in the text?
 What technique is used to simultaneously correct daily temperature, surface downwelling shortwave radiation, and wind speed in historical and future model simulations?
Who are the instructors for Ph.D. Thesis 0-99 and Graduate Reading and Research 5,36,48 courses?
What are the days and times of CPCB Course - Current Topics in Computational Biology?
What is the purpose of Language and Cross-Cultural Support at Carnegie Mellon?
Where and when is Advanced Topics in Logic: Automated Reasoning and Satisfiability held?
Who invented Eyevision for CBS during Super Bowl XXXV?
 What is the purpose of self-training in the context of AL according to the text?
What is the course code for Research Training in Philosophy?
What should students consider when planning for the student’s discussion with appropriate academic contact(s) (advisor, associate dean, etc.)?
Can MIIS students defer their enrollment? If yes, how many times can they do it and what is the duration of the deferral?
What is the location of Silverman's independent study in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the authors listed in this text that teach at Duquesne University?
What is the name of the course taught by Simons R?
How much sponsored research was done in Computer Science Department between 1982 and 1985?
What is the contact email for SCS Graduate Admissions?
Where is Guided Research 3-36 held?
Under what circumstances are consensual intimate relationships prohibited among graduate and undergraduate students?
What is the purpose of receiving outside funding for applications?
What is the course code and title of the 'Coda I' course offered by Chapman B at TBA in room MM 121?
 Which language test set shows the highest METEOR score?
What is the name of the office responsible for providing health services on campus?
What are the two example schedules for completing the MIIS-16 program?
What are the names of the two graduate recitals for viola in this text?
 What are the properties needed for real-world speech synthesis according to the text?
How can the student-athletes improve issues they face in competition?
What is the course name, credit hours, and meeting time for HBH B301 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the locations of the courses listed in the text?
How can students request support from Academic Coaching at the Academic Success Center?
What are the names of the instructors for Basketball Skills A3?
What are the departure and arrival times for the flight from Pittsburgh to Doha?
What are the class names and days for Fitzsimmons H4?
What are the names of the two speakers and their respective topics in the first session?
What is the course code for all courses taught by Larsson?
Who are the speakers for Carnival Gateway Project Management?
What is the title of the course taught by Yasko (MM A11)?
What is the name of the instructor for the class 'Rhetoric and the Body'?
How many units must students enroll each semester to receive the maximum amount of federal financial aid?
What are the two courses being offered by Pozzi in Urban Systems Modeling?
What is the policy of Carnegie Mellon University regarding grade appeals?
How can a student prevent their name and address from being published in the campus directory?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Energy Innovation and Entrepreneurship'?
What is the location of Farag's lectures?
What is the name of the organization that provides professional development opportunities for university staff?
When and where is Advanced Topics in Analysis held by Neumayer?
What is the name of the production preparation course offered in the passage?
What is the title of Senior Recital Voice 1.0?
What is the maximum number of units a student in the MIIS program can take per semester without permission from the program director?
 How much does it cost for a 0-shot model according to the table?
Where can you find more information about Justine Cassell, Professor (On Leave) in Human-Computer Interaction Institute and Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the people listed in the text?
Where can you find the contact information for Language Technologies Institute?
 What types of questions are included in the MMHAL-BENCH to evaluate LMM responses?
What is the duration of the MIIS: Advanced Study degree?
What is the name of the course being offered by Hinkelman?
What is the reference for safeguarding educational equity?
 What is the main conclusion regarding multilingual ASR in the text?
Where can someone find contact information for LTI faculty, staff and students?
When can students request to transfer into the MLT program?
What is the title of the fourth course mentioned in the text?
Where and when does Gershkovich's first course take place?
What is the name of the course that teaches about Graduate Independent Study?
 What do the results of the speech re-synthesis with the HiFi-GAN vocoder show?
 What database is used in the experiments mentioned in the text?
What is the course name for Computer Science 15445?
 Which model substantially outperforms all other models on data science problems from the DS-1000 benchmark?
What is the course number of the Senior Capstone II class?
What is the name of the instructor for Information Systems Program 67100?
 What did the experiment results in section D show about model size and few-shot classification accuracy?
What are the three time slots for Designing Human Centered Software D?
In what room and at what time does Zayed teach Science and Science Fiction?
 What is the median time taken by SO-GI in hours?
 How many in-context examples are used in the default prompt design for ICE?
Where and when does this course take place?
Who is the instructor for Music and Technology Seminar?
Who is the instructor for W 05:00PM and S 11:00AM?
What was the focus of early part of this thing at GSIA according to Newell's statement?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
 What is the objective of speech recognition?
Where is Language Technologies Institute located?
 What is suggested about the gene HRAS in relation to speech in the text?
What is the platform used by the Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete Alumni Mentoring Program?
What are the names of the instructors listed in the text?
At which university did Edmund M. Clarke receive his PhD degree?
What did Berliner use fuzzy logic for in the 1970s?
What is the course code of the Sound Recording class that starts at 1:00 PM on Saturday?
Who are the instructors for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) and Artist Diploma Recital 1.0?
What are the three main areas that the university focuses on?
 Which models slightly outperform their respective prior works according to the text?
 What is the CLUTRR dataset divided into based on difficulties?
Who teaches the Literature & Repertoire for Viola?
What is the course code for Musuraca and Hardman's Interaction Design Fundamentals class?
What should students do if they want to engage in external employment or consulting?
What are the course names and their respective credit hours for HBH 95890, HBH 95891, HBH 95892, HBH 95893, HBH 95894, HBH 95895, and HBH 95896 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course taught by Professor Dilworth at WEH 6423?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in room MM409 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the URL for Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students?
Where is the location of this event?
What is Campus Wellness at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does 'Music History for Graduate Students 1' take place?
How many computers are available for MS Students in 2.3 Computers for MS Students?
What is the role of graduate students in maintaining an inclusive learning environment?
 Which software development platform was chosen for collaborative software development in the text?
What are the days and times of Heinz College Wide Courses Study Abroad?
How can students register for Peer Tutoring services at the Academic Success Center?
 What is the primary goal of training low-rank neural networks?
What is property testing in combinatorial properties?
 How do the authors of the first paper analyze bias in the text generated by an LLM?
What benefits are available for domestic partners of students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for Advanced DP3: Painting - Lump, Clump, Nestle, Merge: Drawing Complexity?
What are the days, times, and location of Graduate Opera Workshop?
 What is the objective of the ESPnet-ST-v2 project?
What are the departure and arrival times for flight WEH 4708 from Pittsburgh to Doha?
Why should graduate students refer to The WORD often?
Which music studies studio focuses on Double Bass (GB)?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the classrooms where classes starting with 'K' take place?
What are the names of the three teachers listed in this text?
What is the purpose of the Division of Student Affairs?
What is the main topic of discussion in this text?
In what room is Functions of a Complex Variable being taught? Who are the professors teaching this subject?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered by Dr. Zayed in Doha, Qatar?
What is the role of education in Queer Athlete and Ally Collective (QAAC)?
When and where are the classes of Physics II for Biological Sciences & Chemistry Students held?
 How many groups were the volatile chemical components divided into for PCA-X and OPLS-DA analysis?
What are the dates and times of all classes taught by instructor Aldrich?
 What is the improvement in BLEU score achieved by the proposed framework on the Fisher Spanish-English dataset?
What is the topic of Aditya Agarwal's lecture at SCS Distinguished Lecture?
Will I be considered for financial support if I am admitted into a Ph.D. program?
 Which language exhibits the lowest BERTScore for idiomatic sentence translations?
What is Dr. Reddy's current position?
What is described in section 3 of MCDS Degree Completion and Certification?
What is the location of Clay's independent study in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the instructors for Literature and Repertoire: Percussion class at DNM?
What is Carnegie Mellon's goal regarding its programs?
What is the title of Yoo's class and what time does it start?
 What does the intersection of the Q2 regression line with the vertical axis suggest about the model?
When and where does class 76815 take place?
 Who are acknowledged for their support in the project according to the text?
What is the course code and instructor for Independent Study in Management offered at DNM?
What are the research areas of Sean Welleck?
What is the location of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can students, alumni, and the community at-large raise awareness of athletics programs?
 What is the name of the dataset mentioned in the paper Clotho: an audio captioning dataset?
 What is the purpose of providing additional examples in the text?
Is the MIIS requirement different from the SCS guidelines?
In which section can you find information about LTI Academic Policies?
What are the days and times of all courses listed in this text?
Who are the partners involved in securing this funding?
What is the website where students can find information on activities, resources, and opportunities for graduate students?
 Does SELF-REFINE work effectively with weaker models according to the experiments discussed?
What is the date of the article?
How can you contact the Information Desk at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What remains constant for different crack depth ratios according to the text?
What is the name of the instructor for Directed Reading Mini 10?
How many years ago was the oldest football highlights video uploaded to TartanAthletics' YouTube channel?
 Why is SemanticSTF considered important for training universal 3DSS models?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in HOT Compilation and Advanced Algorithms: A?
 What is the title of the article mentioned in the text?
When does Creative Story Development for Emerging Technologies take place?
What is the name of the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Piano Maintenance) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How many repositories were sampled for the collaborative software development platform?
What does the author mean by 'the Carnegie Mellon degree'?
 How is Macro F1 calculated?
What is the course code for Directed Study with Mitamura?
 What is the proposed future work mentioned in the text after establishing the standardized evaluation suite?
What are the dining options available according to section 6.15?
Where can students find exact add/drop and withdrawal dates?
 What did the voice-anthropometric measurement (AM)-face paradigm identify?
What type of facility has been constructed for health, wellness and athletics?
 How do the internal pauses in VITS syntheses compare to MQTTS?
What is the parking situation like at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the timings for Percussion Studio Performance Class (57031)?
What is the name of the instructor teaching at 05:00PM - 06:20PM on Wednesdays and Fridays?
What is the relationship between Carnegie Mellon University and the Scottish terrier breed?
Who teaches the Java for Application Programmers and Data Structures for Application Programmers courses?
What is the purpose of MSAII Orientation mentioned in the degree requirements section?
 Are there any antiviral drugs approved for inﬂuenza C or D virus infections?
Where can students find information about the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
 What does the Effect of English MT in the text refer to?
What are the days and times of 'Perception: 9.0'?
What are the names of the two preparation shows that take place on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What are the course codes for Marketing I, Consumer Behavior, Strategy for High-Tech Products and Services, Islamic Finance, Design Thinking for Business: Creative Solutions for Complex Problems, Finance, Applied Business AI, Management Game, Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Emerging Markets, Introduction to Entrepreneurship, New Venture Creation?
What happens if a Master’s student does not complete their degree within the standard time limit?
 How does ClusterLLM use LLMs to improve learned features?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes that start at 5:30 PM on Wednesday?
When does the lecture of 'Decision Making Methods for Engineers and Scientists' take place?
What are the days and times of Production Prep courses?
What is the name of the course taught by Williams again?
What are Affiliate ID Cards?
In which class does Erdmann teach at 08:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
Who are the instructors for the third and fourth music studies studios mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the course taught by Struble in the Fall 2023 semester?
Who is the instructor for S 11:00AM - 03:00PM class?
What is the course code for Mcgowan's Intro to Stained Glass class?
What is the duration of a Formal Leave of Absence under the Student Leave Policy for international students?
What is the course code for Special Topics in Creative Writing: 4.5?
Where did the Principles of Computing course take place and who were the instructors?
What is the name of the course that focuses on Keyboard Studies for graduate students?
What is the name of the course that will be held in DH 2315 from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
When is Spacecraft Design-Build-Fly Laboratory 2 held?
What are the days and times when the course 'Organic Chemistry II' is held?
What is the course code and title of the course offered at 11:00AM - 12:20PM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday in room SH 236?
What are the ways in which Carnegie Mellon University provides health care services for its students?
 What is the calculation method of the secondary transfer length after the fracture of the steel wire strand?
 What benchmark was HuBERT-MR-P evaluated on?
What are the class timings for Introduction to Hot Glass I: TBA E?
What is the name of the class 'User-Centered Research and Evaluation B'?
What are the names of the courses offered in the evening on Tuesday?
What is the course name for the study abroad program offered at TBA with Instructor TBA?
What is the location of the class for Special Topics in Music: VAR?
What are the names of the two courses offered by Hanson in Draping Fundamentals?
What is the name of Woodruff and Anderson's course on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday?
Does LTI allow direct transfer from master's programs into PhD program?
What is the course code for Introduction to Deep Learning and Pattern Recognition for Computer Vision?
What are the class locations for all classes taught by Professor Fitzsimmons?
What is the purpose of Parking Services at CMU?
Where and when is the course 'Project Management' taught?
Who are the affiliated faculty members at Language Technologies Institute?
 How have encoder architectures of E2E models evolved over time?
Who teaches the course titled 'Matrix Algebra with Applications' on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 3:00 PM to 3:50 PM in room POS A22?
Who teaches Designing Experiences for Learning on Monday at 12:00 PM in room MM 211?
What are the names and durations of the courses offered by Iyengar, Hime, Smith, Yoder, Ben, and Platz?
What is the location of the event 'B2 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Mozisek 94784 Technology, Humanity and Social Justice - Health 3.0 A2 F'?
What is the difference between the names of the high schools that Francis and Justin attend?
Who teaches Production Prep: Macbeth: VAR Directing?
Does Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science have any campuses other than the one in Pittsburgh?
What are the requirements for satisfying at least one concentration?
 What organizations supported the work mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Design Center: Design for Digital Systems in MM 215 on Monday and Wednesday?
Who teaches Technical Direction III?
Where did Shafi enroll for graduate studies after her undergraduate degree?
Where can MIIS students find the Career & Professional Development Center's services?
 What is anlotinib and how does it function in lung cancer treatment?
 What is the importance of identifying MRI features that predict MVI and tumor recurrence in patients without peritumoral HBP hypointensity?
What is the name of the class that meets on Monday evenings from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
What is the course code for 'Production Prep: Love and Money'?
 Is this photo taken indoors or outdoors?
What are the days and times when Intermediate French II Online is offered?
What was the overall record of Tartans Women's Soccer team for 2023?
 What are some features included in the augmented datasets mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes for each location in this schedule?
What was the result of the team's second match against Elizabethtown at F&M - Lancaster, Pa.?
What is the course name for TR 09:30AM - 10:50AM in SH 234?
Who is Reddy?
How many faculty members and graduate students were included in the Computer Science Department by 1982?
What are the contact details for Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of Gogolak's class?
What should students do regarding their insurance at the beginning of each semester?
What position does Rak Agyei play?
In which room is the Process and Project Management course held on Tuesdays?
What is the name of the course taught by Ndibwile on B3 TR?
What are the names of the two professors teaching 'Behavioral Decision Making'?
What is the location of the workshop where Lee R. taught?
How can students get in touch with the LTI webmaster?
What are the days and times of Antonelli's Digital Photography I class?
 In Table 8, which model lags behind especially on higher-resource languages?
 What lifestyle changes can contribute to longer life expectancy?
Who teaches lecture G at PH A19C?
When does the process of selecting an advisor take place?
Who suggested to name the school 'School of Computing'?
What are the course codes for Monday classes in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where is Internet of Things class held?
What is the location of Naval Laboratory?
How does Boss find a spot and park in a parking lot?
What is the name of the class that takes place on Monday at 2:00 PM in Modern Data Management?
What are the deadlines for MHCI and MSPM programs?
On which page can students find information about key resources for graduate student support according to the text?
Where and when was the course 'Beyond Physical: The Psychology of Athletes' held?
What is the location of the Senior Capstone II course?
What are the topics covered in Algorithmic Problem Solving?
When does the Special Topics in Music: connection to self and others through music class take place?
What is the name of the class that focuses on 'Biopharma Protein-Based Pharmaceuticals'?
What are the locations of the classes for both courses?
 What does st,i(u) represent in the SUPERBs formula?
What are the names of the teachers listed under 'Y', 'Z' and 'AA'?
What is the purpose of the Marriage Committee?
 Why is there a high emphasis on the release of artifacts?
What does a person need to do if they forgot their account on this page?
What are the names of the teachers who teach Elementary Chinese Online I and Chinese Calligraphy: Culture and Skills?
Who teaches the IDeATe Special Topics in Animation course?
 What is the goal of domain generalization?
Where is the training for Psychology Research Training located?
What is the name of the activity that takes place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What is the email address for Ilyas Bankolehameed?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the instructor for 18984 M.S. Graduate Project - AIE Producers?
What is the topic of the Entrepreneurship Through Acquisition Workshop?
What are the days and times of Erol's classes for Intermediate Microeconomics?
What is the instructor's name for each course?
 What domains are covered by the environment described in the text?
How many Tartans were recognized for their academic achievements during the fall semester?
Where does Negotiation: Strategies and Behavioral Insights take place?
What should I do if English is not my native language?
What was the result of the Women's Soccer team's game in the NCAA Second Round?
 What kind of labels are assigned to un-annotated instances when using self-training?
What types of disabilities are encouraged for students to self-identify with the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
When is the lighting production scheduled to take place?
What are the names of the instructors for Causality and Machine Learning class?
 How are the audio inputs represented in terms of dimensions?
Where and when does the 'Statistical Methods Mini' class take place?
What position does Catherine MacNichol play?
What is the purpose of the Religious & Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI) mentioned in the text?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Fridays from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in SH 234?
What is the name of the elective studio that Ojeda teaches at Elective Studio (Voice) 3-9 A TBA TBA?
Where does Stehlik's Independent Study in Computer Science take place?
What are the names of the courses taught by Webler and Houser?
 How many dialogues were sampled from the original KdConv corpus to form the KdConv-Eval test dataset?
 What is one strategy mentioned in the text for improving machine translation?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Taborga in Dynamic Teams?
What is the purpose of distributing a draft of the thesis early?
 According to Lu et al., how well can language-pretrained transformers transfer to non-language tasks?
Name two courses that start at 02:00 PM on Tuesday.
When are the classes for Elective Studio (Bassoon), Elective Studio (Saxophone), and Elective Studio (Trumpet)?
What are the class times and locations for Writing for Public Policy (90717) and Strategic Presentation Skills (90718)?
 What is the challenge of applying Genetic Improvement (GI) to the mobile domain?
What kind of support does the University Libraries provide for research data management?
What is the purpose of the University Policy on Academic Integrity?
What are the course codes for Financial and Managerial Accounting II in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What correlation coefficient and RMSE value are found between GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product in the ICP region?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Directing I: A Director's Preparation at PCA 118?
What are the three courses taught by Warren Shea in this schedule?
Where is Cultural Roots: Chinese Language & Culture for Heritage Learners taught by Bramlett?
 What is one of the NLG tasks mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for BXA Studio (2nd semester) and Solfege for Conductors III?
What is FERPA, according to section 6.7?
What services do the University Libraries offer for graduate students?
 What is identified as the critical angle of the crack stress intensity factor?
Why is it important to respect the Carnegie Mellon degree?
What is the course code for Love, Drugs, and War: The Obsessions of History’s Great Composers?
What school does Isha Nambisan attend?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
What is the course code for Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems?
My school does not provide me with a 'major GPA,' how should I calculate it?
Who is this guidance intended for according to section 3.3?
Where is the Experimental Techniques in Molecular Biology class held?
What was the first problem Shafi began working on with Micali in their work on cryptography?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Production Prep: Put Your House in Order for Lighting Design?
 Which model is mentioned as being robust to changes in example ordering for all three experiments?
What was Berliner's opinion about NSS chess program?
What are the initiatives provided by Carnegie Mellon University for students' spiritual growth?
 What is the purpose of selecting the threshold τc for emitting prediction at inference time?
Which two teams played in a final game on February 25?
 What is the goal of dialogue discourse parsing?
Who teaches Special Topics: Statistical Methods in Health Sciences class?
In what year did Coach Smith start coaching this team?
What page number of the handbook does the text reference?
What should students supported by research projects do during breaks in classes?
What are the application materials required for transfer into the MIIS program?
Which team did Tartans play against in their UAA contest that they lost on February 02, 2024?
What is the name of the class for learning about lighting design?
 How can GLoRA be degraded to any of its predecessor methods?
What are the three aspects included in each project according to the text?
What is the name of the symposium mentioned in the text?
What position does Faith Lawrence play?
Where is the Carnegie Mellon Code located?
What is the subject taught by Mitchell 76106?
What are the days of the week when Foundation of BME Design and Fundamentals of Joinery & Furniture Design are offered?
Who are the authors listed in alphabetical order by their first names?
What are the three production preparation courses listed in this schedule?
What event did the Women's Cross Country team participate in on November 18, 2023?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Mr. Stuettgen?
What is the course code for Graduate Laboratory?
What is the page number of the handbook where A.4 The WORD is located?
What was Deep Blue?
What is the course name for the class that takes place from 9:00 AM to 10:20 AM on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays?
 What is the purpose of the `Page Operation Actions` mentioned in the text?
What is the email address of The HUB Student Services Center at CMU?
Where can students find more information about RSLI initiatives and programs?
What are the days/times for Behavioral Economics (course code 73366)?
What are the instructors' names for each course mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes and their respective titles for the courses listed in the schedule?
When is 'Programming Usable Interfaces: Advanced PUI Lab' held?
What are the names of the classes that take place on Wednesdays from 04:00PM to 05:20PM and Saturdays from 11:00AM to 03:00PM?
 What phenotypic effects on speech are reported for SPEN?
What is the purpose of rough continual innovation in education according to this text?
What does Berliner think about students attempting to talk their way around difficult problems instead of doing research?
What is unique about temporal logic compared to Hoare's logic?
 What is the purpose of using supervised learning with PIT for addressing the permutation problem?
What are the class codes for 'Rehearsal and Performance IV: Doll's House', 'Rehearsal and Performance IV: Mother', and 'Rehearsal and Performance IV: External Project'?
When and where does Instructor TBA's Organic Chemistry II take place?
What are the days and times that Thomas Mercier is teaching Foundations of Software Management?
What are the contact details of University 5000?
Who was Jordan and what position did they hold?
According to the menu options, what are some of the main activities that take place at this institute?
What is the course title of the class that takes place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania at 12:30 PM on Friday?
What is the VMD Systems Studio course code and description in the given text?
What is the course name of Cervesato's classes on Friday?
What are the two scenarios where language technologies can be developed?
What is the name of the course that Noonan is taking at 09871 in the schedule?
 What is one way to augment machine translation (MT) data mentioned in the text?
 How long did the entire alignment process take for the poor-resolution data collected from a XANES experiment at SSRL?
Where and when is the Machine Learning for Signal Processing course held?
What information can be found under 'Test Scores' on the FAQ page?
What are the timings of Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Criminal Justice?
When does Pessoa teach his/her class?
What is the course name of Product Management: 6.0 taught by Miller at B23 118 in San Jose, California?
Can a student transfer into the Ph.D program at LTI? If so, how?
What does the author suggest as a fallback when there's insufficient time or data to build an NLP system?
 What is the purpose of AMR alignment as mentioned in the text?
How many authors have the surname 'KA' or 'KB'?
What is the achievement of Carnegie Mellon University Department of Athletics in 2022-23?
 What configuration is used for the experiments in the text regarding the code size?
Who teaches the 'Mobile and Embedded Software Design' course?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for the courses offered in Doha, Qatar by instructors with last name starting from A to X?
What is the purpose of providing more information on Student Health Services' website?
 What is the problem setup described in the text?
 What is the scoring vector in the reranking step based on?
What is the purpose of Production Prep: Lear (Costume Design)?
If your expired scores meet ETS's requirements, what can you do?
What is the course name taught by Vitone and Yasko on Wednesday from 12:00 PM to 04:50 PM in room MM 211?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
Who should students consult with regarding billing and financial aid?
How is GSA funded?
 Why is the sum over durations in D for the blank emission in TDT important?
What is the summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures in the handbook?
What is the course name for Reading and Research?
What types of support funding are available for enrolled students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the effect of the region-label threshold τp at values 0.80 and 0.95 according to Table 9?
Who is the quarterback for Ariz?
 What was the inner diameter of the column in the gas phase–ion mobility spectrometry unit?
Which type of event is highlighted in bold on this calendar?
What should I provide as my current address?
How many courses are there from 57618 to 57620?
What are the names of the instructors for each independent study course?
What is the name of the course offered by Sullivan at DH 1112?
When and where is SCS Interdisciplinary Math Foundations Workshop held?
What are the names of all the classes that Kothari is attending?
What is the location of Lassman's independent study in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the instructor of Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What is the SMART Program?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered in this schedule?
What are the course codes for Bioorganic Chemistry (Silva), Environmental Chemistry (Sullivan), and Introduction to Sustainable Energy Science (Jin)?
Who are the instructors for each course listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the instructor for 'PhD Thesis Research' in the Neuroscience Institute?
What is the name of the course being taught by Schafer in New York City?
What is included in Appendix A of this handbook?
When and where is Graduate Professional Development Seminar held?
What are the names of the two instructors teaching in Production Prep for Macbeth?
Who teaches Acting for Non-Majors at CFA 102 on MW from 05:00PM-06:20PM?
 In top-k sampling, how are tokens selected for output?
What are the names of the two people who will be teaching Production Prep: Penelope?
 What is the advantage of using large language models for multi-dimensional evaluation?
Who makes the decision about transfer credit or course exemption at MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
Which player from California, USA is playing in position M with the number 8 on her jersey?
What are the days and times for each of the courses listed in the schedule?
What is the difference between writing a novel and posting on an online board according to the author?
What is the name of Poulin's course and where is it held?
What is the purpose of deactivating a student's ID card?
What is the name of the instructor teaching CEE Research Project 3-12 in PH 107E at TBA on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
 What is the purpose of the TTS sub-task in the S2ST model?
 What are the three main tasks demonstrated to show the effectiveness of Prompt2Model?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 12:00 PM?
What is the course title of McGovern K's Independent Study?
What is the name of the graduate seminar course that takes place on Tuesdays from 4:30 PM to 5:50 PM in room SH 105?
 Why do the global variabilities of solar PVPOT and WP decrease from daily to yearly scales?
What time does Salehzadeh's class start and end?
Who was recruited from Bell Labs to become the new department head when half of the Computer Science Department's tenured faculty members left?
What is the website for more information about the Master of Robotic Systems Development Application?
What was the final score when Carnegie Mellon played at Case Western Reserve?
What are the names of the ensembles taught by Professor Lawrence?
What are the consequences of taking courses elsewhere for suspended students?
 What is the main objective of comparing the improvements found by MO-GI and SO-GI for Android apps?
Who teaches the course 57624 Independent Study in Special Music Project?
What are the names of the two teachers mentioned in this text?
What are the names and meeting times for classes in Markey E1?
What are the dates and times of the Production Prep sessions for Costume Design?
What is the time slot for Directing A course?
Where did Berliner and his family arrive in the United States?
What is the course code and title of the course offered on Friday at 09:30 AM?
What is the name of the event that athlete #10 specializes in?
What is the Policy Against Retaliation at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What method is compared with the binning methodology?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the 'Architectural Agency' course that starts at 9:30 AM on Wednesdays off-campus in room OFF CAMPUS?
What was the date of the women's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Kenyon?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule?
Who are the authors listed in alphabetical order at the end of this text?
What are the positions of Pennsylvania Cherian and Instructor X?
How do I contact the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the institution that hosted Carnegie Mellon in their game on October 10, 2023?
What is Jason Togyer's contact information according to the text?
What services does OIE provide for students?
What are the names of the classes listed after 'Piano Pedagogy III'?
 What are the essential elements of the proposed method for dialogue discourse parsing?
What is the title of the course that introduces environmental ideas?
What are the names of the teachers listed for TTH classes at WEH?
What is the purpose of CMU Alert according to section 7.19?
Why is it important for students to keep their local address up-to-date on SIO?
 What defines the loss function M3SE proposed by Menon et al.?
How can students access the Student Leave Policy information?
What are the course codes for Acting IV-Improv 3.0 and Production Prep: SOM 3?
When and where does the 'Introduction to Robot Learning' course take place?
Who are the instructors at Aylmer?
On what date did Tartans win in Men's Basketball against #12 Case Western Reserve?
When was the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Thiel held?
What are the names of the teachers and their respective subjects in Pittsburgh?
What is the purpose of Javascript being required for SCS calendar?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What are the days and times when the Costume Design course will be taught?
In which classroom is the Managing Across Cultures A3 class held?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon University's Statement of Assurance?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA at DNM days in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Sullivan B?
What is Emile Berliner known for?
What does the Tartan Men's Golf team play?
What is academic integrity at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the role of an instructor in awarding an 'I' grade?
What are the names of all the instructors listed in the text?
What are the topics covered in the Inquiry into Computational Design course?
What are the course codes and their respective titles for the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 2:00 PM to 3:50 PM?
What are the names and locations of all classes starting with 'Architecture Design Studio:'?
Who is the head coach of the 2023-24 Tartan Men's Swimming and Diving team?
What is the deadline for submitting an application for Language Technologies programs at the School of Computer Science?
What are the days and times when the class for '54665 Production Prep: Gloria: Stage Management D' is held?
 What challenges did the existence of invalid regions pose in the annotation process?
What is the name of the A class?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Leadership Immersion Workshop at Sudbury?
 Why does adding adapters to the model trained with full data diversification not bring further gain?
What is the course code for Russian Cinema: From the Bolshevik Revolution to Putin’s Russia taught by Kats?
What is the difference between transfer credit and course exemption?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Sound Studies?
 What method was used to assess OS among AGR tertiles?
According to the text, what is the option for convening a disciplinary hearing according to the procedures of the department/program?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for the courses offered at HBH 2009 on Thursday?
When was the match between North Central (Ill.) and #14 Carnegie Mellon held?
What is the course code for Modern Regression?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
What field did Shafi's research have applications to?
What are the names and their respective meeting times for the instructors teaching Biomaterials, Polymeric Biomaterials, and Surgery for Engineers?
 How does the performance change in the Code Optimization task when transitioning from SELF-REFINE feedback to generic feedback?
What is James Gosling's current role?
What are the days and times of Intermediate Deep Learning for Engineers 6.0 A4 TR 04:00PM 05:50PM POS 152 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is microvascular invasion (MVI) and why is it important in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) management?
What services does the Information Desk at Carnegie Mellon's University Center provide?
 What organization partially sponsored the research mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for Machine Learning with Large Datasets?
Where can a student find information about their federal student aid programs?
How many more courses do MIIS-21 students need to take compared to MIIS-16 students?
 What does Table 2 show regarding the performance of bi-encoder and cross-encoder on multilingual and crosslingual event linking?
What does the term 'School of Computer Science' refer to?
What is the location of the school that offers Independent Study in Solfege, Independent Study in Eurhythmics, and Independent Study in Sound Recording Production?
Where is Linux and Open Source course held?
What are the days and times when 'Indoor Environmental Quality (IEQ); Energy, Health and Productivity' is offered?
Where is the text set?
 What modification was done for the SAC method in the experiments?
 What did Yang et al. (2017) use to reduce the horizontal drift problem in tomography experiments?
When is Biology for Life Special Topics 9.0 held in Doha, Qatar?
Where and when is the West Virginia Stan Romanoski Open taking place?
When did Tartans compete in the UAA Championships?
What are the names of the classes being taught by the instructor who teaches WR 5:00 PM - 6:20 PM?
 What metrics are used to evaluate the bi-encoder and cross-encoder in the experiments?
In what room and at what time is Telling Stories with Data being held?
 What is the unique feature of OWSM in terms of speech translation directions?
 What is the cavity distribution referred to in the EP literature?
What are the five Master degrees offered by the institution?
Is an undergraduate degree in Computer Science required to pursue Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
What are the admission requirements to apply at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of all the classes that Raghunathan is attending?
Who teaches the Advanced SM:Actors Equity course?
Who are the instructors for independent study 1-24 in Branstetter?
What is the purpose of a semester-long, group-oriented capstone project in MCDS program?
What was highlighted by a team and individual national championship?
What are the names of the cities where each elective studio takes place?
 What did Schwartz et al. (2020) find regarding the performance of morphological segmentation against BPEs for MT?
Can students use resources, including other persons, except as authorized by their course or project?
Who were Carnegie Mellon's opponents in their third and fourth games?
What is the course name for Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt 90401?
 What specific approach is introduced in the text to address the limitations in conversational speech translation?
What is the name of the class held on Tuesday and Thursday from 08:00 AM to 10:20 AM in room 172, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the great contribution to mankind according to Eppinger?
What is the role of institutional animal care & use at CMU?
What is the reason given for some resources being blocked by the user's network?
 What are the different methods listed in the text?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
What are the dates and times for each of the listed activities?
 In Fig. 6(a), what can be observed about the performance when setting K to 5 and 25 compared to 20?
Who is the instructor for Lighting Production in Production Prep: Love and Money?
Who are the instructors for ETC Interdisciplinary Project II in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where will Beginning Piano for Children I be held?
What is the name of the course that starts at 07:00PM on Wednesday evenings?
What are the days and times of the Mediated Narrative course?
What was the consequence of Berliner's blindfolded games?
What was the focus of Carnegie Tech's Computer Science Department according to ANGEL JORDAN?
What is the course name for the class that starts at 9:00 AM on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in room CFA 206A?
 What metric is used to evaluate the performance of the algorithms in the work?
What are the course credits for Graduate Teaching II in Civil & Environmental Engineering?
What was the final score of the game between Washington & Jefferson and Carnegie Mellon on Sat, Oct/21?
What does LTI stand for in this context?
How can students obtain a copy of Carnegie Mellon's annual security report?
What are the names of the instructors for Major Studio (Bagpipe) and Major Studio (Collaborative Piano)?
 Describe the trend of the AOD440nm from 18:00 on 10 February to 09:00 on 11 February.
What is the course title of the class taught by Massaro on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
What is the purpose of the Employment Eligibility Verification Policy at CMU?
What are the names of the instructors for Software Engineering Independent Study J and K?
Does Carnegie Mellon University accept transfer credit from other accredited institutions? If so, how is this recorded on the transcript?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
What is required for a student to pass the 11-637 Foundations of Computational Data Science course?
What is the purpose of this website according to its navigation bar?
What city does Instructor TBA K teach in?
 What is the effectiveness of directly applying the policy adapter optimized for GPT-2 on top of GPT-3?
When is 'Senior Preparation Seminar' being held?
 According to the experiments mentioned in the text, how does HuBERT with multiple resolutions perform compared to the original model?
What is the name of the office that handles student affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-registration?
What is the phone number of Carnegie Mellon Police Department?
What are the dates and times of the IDeATe: 3D Modeling and 3D Printing course?
 How does HIRO improve sample efficiency?
 How do the GUI and backend server communicate with each other?
 What is the main conclusion drawn regarding the relationship between AGR and overall survival in NSCLC patients treated with anlotinib?
What is the phone number of the LTI webmaster?
 How much did the normalization process reduce the overall %GCV for all subtypes tested?
What is the name of the course that Quesenberry, Mertz, Moussawi, Hagan, Poepping, Instructor TBA J and Tu have taken?
What is the policy regarding external employment/consulting according to section 6.2.5?
Who is teaching the Maker Series Intro to Manual Machining courses?
Is the GRE required for admission to Carnegie Mellon University's graduate programs?
What are the two courses offered by iii Engineering Core B and Business Core B?
 What was the best change for the GadgetBridge application?
Where can one find more information about these resources and opportunities mentioned in the text?
Who was Herbert Simon and what did he win a Nobel Prize for?
Who teaches Digital Signal Processing at SH 234 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can students, faculty, and staff request an escort through SafeWalk?
 What task do language models (LMs) perform?
What are the days of the week when Kumar has a class?
Where and when is the Independent Study in HCI - Grad located?
What is the name of the instructor for Scenic Design for Production Prep: Ottone in Villa (SOM 2)?
What are the days and times of the 'Laboratory Methods for Automated Biology I' course?
What is the name of the restaurant that offers delivery service to CMU University Dining Service?
What was the time of day when the men's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Stevens started?
How are CS ids being phased out?
 How do students in the module improve their models iteratively?
What is the significance of introducing temporal logic in system verification?
What is the location of El Zanfaly?
Who are the instructors for independent study 1-12 in Pennsylvania?
What is the course name for 67301 in the given text?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C108 from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM on Wednesday?
What does LTI stand for?
What are the course codes and their respective locations for Schafer 46923, Schafer R2, Yurko 46926, Yurko Machine Learning I:, Yurko Machine Learning I R2, Wiesel 46944, Larsson, Andersen 46954, Hrusa 46956, and Kuehn 46972?
 What is the significance of the agent latching onto the first related piece of information in the text?
What is the policy on deferral at MIIS?
 What learning rate policy is used in training the segmentation model?
 How does the model FROMAGe perform in terms of zero-shot performance?
 What is DACS and PAC in the context of the text?
What is the course code for Student Teaching Practicum?
When does the first event take place?
Where did the 25th anniversary celebration take place?
On what date did Tartans win in Men's Basketball against #12 Case Western Reserve?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
How many instructors are listed in this text?
Who teaches Machine Learning in Practice at WEH 7500?
What does FERPA authorize without student consent?
What are the course codes for China Before the Republic and Spain: Language and Culture?
Which player is from Plano, Texas?
What are the days and times when Levin-Decanini teaches Programming Usable Interfaces?
Where is Jessica Zheng from and what high school did she attend?
What resources are available for military veterans at CMU?
Can I transfer into a master’s program from another college/university?
Where does Carley teach his Introduction to Computer Security class?
 How is the approximation affected as τ approaches 0?
Who is the instructor for Fundamentals of Water Quality Engineering class?
In which section of the handbook can you find information on parking and transportation services for CMU students?
How can varsity student-athletes share the information they learned in the SMART program?
Where is the Production Prep class for 'A Little Night Music' held?
 What is the percentile of idioms in OS for translations by DeepL in Japanese?
What are the course codes and instructors for Maker Series: Prototyping for Equity, Cardiovascular Mechanics, Computational Analysis of Transport Phenomena, Direct Solar and Thermal Energy Conversion, Thermal Design, Structural Design: 12.0 Structural Design Lec, Structural Design A, Manufacturing Futures, Applied Finite Element Analysis: 12.0, Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials, Special Topics: Materials and Their Processing for Mechanical Engineers, Special Topics: Welding Engineering, Cellular Biomechanics, and Mechanics Modeling Guided by Fundamentals?
Where was the Directed Research course held?
What are the time slots for Sound Forum?
Where was the Dave Labor Invitational held for Track and Field?
What is the name of the studio that offers advanced music studies for Double Bass?
What are the advising requirements for students?
What is the name of Mozisek's class that starts at TBA on B4?
What should be done before signing an offer contract for an internship?
What was Mauldin's role in Lycos?
What are the days and time slots of the 'Special Topics in ICT: Business Fundamentals for Engineers' class?
 How much does it cost for a 0-shot Google model?
What is the name of the course that offers a study on 'Interpretation and Argument: Politics & Ideology in the Marvel Cinematic Universe'?
What are the days and times when Gajic's Directing I class is scheduled?
What is the name of the program that has an open call for dual degree phd scholarships?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Corporate Strategy courses?
Where is the Independent Study class held?
What are the days, times and locations of Mayer's course 'Analytical and Structural Marketing Models'?
 What is a suggestion made to mitigate potential harms to workers mentioned in the text?
According to the text, what happens if a student commits a second violation while on disciplinary probation?
What do the abbreviations 'DNM' stand for?
What position does Kai Yamamoto play?
What is the title of the course mentioned in the text?
What award did he receive in 1987-1989?
What proficiency requirements must be met to complete a PhD course at LTI?
 How do the PAR curves compare to the AR curves in terms of RTF?
What is the title of the film that will be screened at POS 251 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course title and time for lecture 2 in section 18751?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches at DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where is the event 'Literature & Repertoire' held?
What is the purpose of the longer message mentioned in the text?
Which elective course can a student choose from for deepening their expertise in Language Technology Applications area?
What is the course title of lecture 12.0 at 4:00 PM on Wednesday?
When does Olisar R teach Fundamentals of Marching Band?
What are the course names for the courses listed?
Where can one find more information about Eberly Center's support for teaching assistants or instructors of record in the Future Faculty Program?
What is the purpose of a university's grading principles?
What is the date of the NCAA Championships for Swimming and Diving?
 What are the four common evaluation metrics used in the experiments mentioned in the text?
Who teaches the Poetry Workshop course?
What does the term 'Fun Fact' mean in this context?
What is the location and time of MW 11:30AM - 12:45PM class?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Vocal Pedagogy II?
What is the course code and instructor for Independent Study in Business Communications offered at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does Instructor TBA's Internship take place?
 How is the computation of near-duplicates made more efficient?
When does the Topics in Formal Epistemology: Topological Philosophy of Science take place?
What are the names of the five courses taught by Portnykh mentioned in the text?
When does the course 'Scenic Design E' take place?
What happens if a Ph.D. student receives an outside graduate fellowship?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep for Grown Ups?
Where does the 'Engineering Privacy in Software' course take place?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
Who are the other instructors at Carnegie Mellon University, besides Wiesel and Young?
What are the days of the week when these courses are being taught?
How many credits does Writing for the Professions 76270 have?
In which section of the website can you find more information about ORIC?
When and where will Decision and Risk Modeling be held?
What are the days and time slots of Business Language Analytics class?
Where will the Project Olympus Open House take place?
Which courses are mentioned as approved qualifying courses for SCS relevant to MIIS degree other than LTI?
What resources are available on the Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline website?
What is the purpose of conducting tests for CMU Alert?
 How many participants were recruited for the study?
What time does the class 'Eurhythmics III' start?
At what time does Bjorndahl teach Logic and Proofs?
 What are the top skills learned by the modular model COS for ODQA?
What is the curriculum for Ph.D. program similar to during the first two years?
Where is the study conducted?
 What dataset is used to train the AAI models in the research?
What are the days and times of Bagpipe Maintenance?
What is the destination of the Study Abroad program?
How does ORIC assist researchers at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What does the joint model learn to automatically predict during inference?
What is the name of the person to contact for specific application/admissions questions in the text?
Where does the 'Scenic Design: Design for Spaces' class take place, and what is its duration?
What is the goal of the News-on-Demand application in the Informedia Project?
Is it mandatory for full-time degree-seeking students to have adequate medical insurance at Carnegie Mellon?
Who teaches the course Software Architecture and Design?
What is the name of the teacher and their respective classroom in Pittsburgh?
Where can students find university-wide academic policy information and resources?
Where does Compeau teach Computational Genomics?
What language proficiency requirements does the text mention?
When and where does Classical Electrodynamics I take place?
What is the email address of Fernando Diaz?
What is double-dipping at MIIS?
What does the text suggest about the process for requesting accommodations?
 What is the mathematical definition of reciprocal rank (RR1) provided in the text?
 How many shot prompting examples are provided for GPT-NeoX in the Formality section?
 What is the title of the paper by Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Thomas L Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan?
 Why did the previous sentence retrieval approach show a relatively small improvement according to the text?
 How much are workers paid for each caption evaluation?
What are the days and times for the courses offered at HBH on Monday, Wednesday (MW), 11:00AM - 12:20PM?
What are the time slots when there is no class for Lighting Design?
What was the curriculum change at CMU and why did it happen?
What is the name of the senior thesis taught by Thiessen?
What is the course code for Societal Computing Graduate Reading and Research?
What is the course code for Machine Learning for Text and Graph-based Mining?
How does an outside fellowship or scholarship affect departmental support for LTI Ph.D. students?
Why did Reddy leave Stanford for Carnegie Mellon University in 1969?
 What type of dust particles are observed to be transported by the Harmattan from Saharan dust?
What are the days and times of Ransom's Ceramics for Non-Majors class?
 What is the metric M2 used for?
Where is the lecture for Ada, Saad D F held?
What are the benefits of working with LTI according to the text?
What is the name of the class held on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
What is the role of the Program Director if a student cannot find a specific advisor?
What is the URL for Carnegie Mellon University's Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) website?
What are the time slots when these courses are being taught?
 What is the defined value of ISTC in the text?
What does the text imply about the characteristics of the Scottish terrier?
What are the time and location of the Editing and Publishing course?
 What baselines were adopted for the ImageNet-1k experiments?
What is the abbreviation for 'TBA' in this context?
 What is the term used to describe the discrepancy between computational throughput improvements and wall-clock inference latency?
Who can request an escort from SafeWalk?
What position did Reddy hold in the President's Information Technology Advisory Committee from 1999 to 2001?
What are the three main sections in this text?
 What is the purpose of using iterative refinement in the SELF-REFINE system?
What does 'without compromise' mean in this context?
 What activation function is used within the projector?
What are the course codes for the courses offered on Saturday at Rohrbach Hall?
What does TBA stand for in this context?
 How does WebArena support agents designed in various ways in terms of element selection?
 What is the purpose of the expert configuration shown in Figure 3?
How many commencement ceremonies does the University hold each year?
 How are decoder architectures in ESPnet-ST-v2 designed to handle E2E differentiable decoder cascades?
What event was held at Kenyon Fast Chance Invite where CMU student-athlete of the week participated?
What are the names of all the teachers mentioned in this text?
What are the dates, times, and location of another lecture by Farag?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Apr/08 at 10:00 a.m.?
Who moderated the 'SCS25: Robotics at the Tipping Point' panel discussion?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the focus of 'Our Bill of Rights' at LTI?
What is the name of the instructor who comes after 'P' in this text?
What is the title of course 15640?
What is the course code for Prototyping Lab?
What is the title of the course that takes place on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 9:00 AM - 9:50 AM in WEH 7500, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the description provided for the workers to evaluate in the process?
 What does the parameter 𝛾 control in Equation (4)?
What does CMU's policy state about drop/add/withdraw procedures for doctoral students?
When does SafeWalk operate?
What is the name of the building where Wu teaches?
What is the statute of limitations for recording units required for the master’s degree?
How can you share an event from the iCalendar RSS Feed?
When and where does Maker Series: Intro to Laser Cutting & Engraving take place?
What is the course code and title of the Business Communications course offered by Dejeu?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor E in Keyboard Studies?
Which school played against Carnegie Mellon in softball on Fri, Apr/12?
Where can graduate students find enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration and Parental Accommodations?
How many departments are included in the Division of Student Affairs according to the given text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Outdoor Soccer at GES SOCCER in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What was the concern for Traub's successor, A. Nico Habermann in 1982?
What is the maximum and minimum course load at MIIS?
What are the days and times when Production Prep: Sender - Stage Management is being offered?
Who are the instructors for Foundations: Risk, Agency, Failure (60101) and what are their teaching times?
Why is research considered an essential element in education, particularly at the graduate level and in faculty development?
What is the purpose of the link provided at the end of the text?
What are the names of the courses that start at 02:00PM?
What are the class names and locations for Carlock's second classes?
When are the classes for Applied Information Assurance held?
What is the name of the award presented by President of India that he received in 2001?
What were some of Dr. Newell's academic achievements?
When and where is 'Chamber Music: Guitar' class held?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered by Dandin at HH B103?
Where can one find information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC Bank, fitness rooms and schedules, retail stores, scheduling University Center space, the public prayer room, student organizations, and the Wright-Rogal Chapel?
What are the research interests of Ralf Brown?
What are the names of the two instructors who teach 'Erdmann, Kaynar U W' and 'Peng B TR', respectively?
 What approach is proposed in this work for facilitating engaging music discovery?
Who teaches the Stage Management class?
 What are the estimated parameters for the Curie model?
Where are the classes taught by Dimitriu located?
What was the number of Tartans named to Volleyball and Football Academic All-District Teams?
What is the course name for Life in the Digital Factory: Spatial Storytelling about Computational Landscapes?
Where does Distributed Systems take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Bioprocess Design?
What are the course codes, titles, days, times, and locations of the courses taught by Stephenson?
Where can students find more information about the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion?
What is the course code for Acting I class?
What is the name of the course being taught on Tuesday and Thursday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
How many performers were involved in the recital?
When and where is Problems in Chemical Engineering 1,2 being held?
What is the course title of the class that starts at 08:00AM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the courses offered for Master's program in Machine Learning?
When were the College Sports Communicators (CSC) Academic All-District Teams for Division III announced?
In what room is Lonely Planet class held?
What is the name of the course held at 09:30AM on Monday through Friday starting from August 31st, taught by Instructor TBA?
 How does Scone support inheritance?
Where and when does Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering take place?
Can I transfer into a Ph.D. program from another college/university?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room PCA 231?
What kind of programs does SCS offer?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in BH 255A and PH A18C?
 What elements were adopted in the finite element model?
What is the height of Aidan Booher?
 How can the research mentioned in the text help guide immunotherapy strategies?
Who organized and led CSD's first Immigration Course?
What is the role of academic integrity in Carnegie Mellon University?
Does this policy allow consensual intimate relationships between colleagues?
How many units are required in each semester for the Professional Preparation Track?
Who are the instructors for 15441 Networking and the Internet?
What is the course Graduate Seminar: Situating Research about?
 What is the purpose of the evaluation suite introduced for phonetic word embeddings?
What is the course code for Independent Study for Entertainment Technology Center?
Under which section is Shuttle and Escort Services mentioned in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the location of the LTI in relation to Pittsburgh?
What is the location of the Advanced Music Studies Studio for Percussion?
Who is teaching Stage Management D course?
What is the date of the NCAA Championships?
What was the margin of victory for Berliner's first championship?
Who wrote 'Herbert A. Simon: A Family Memory'?
 What are some common approaches to speech-to-text (ST) translation?
 What is the topic of the article by He in Environ. Pollut. 2017?
 Can you name any three of the individuals mentioned in the text?
What is the course name for Public Management:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt 91601?
 How are the minimum and maximum output lengths determined in the heuristic approach mentioned in the text?
 What encoder is used by ESPNet-SLU and SpeechBrain in the experiments?
 What is the constraint in the estimation problem involving the VFO model parameters?
 What regions show a general enhancement in solar PV according to the study?
 What were some of the factors analyzed that impact the fatigue crack propagation behaviour of the high-performance steel?
What is the significance of academic calendar in course registration process?
What are the days and times of Erol's classes for Intermediate Microeconomics in TEP 2700?
What is the name of the course taught by Quintana A in room BH 140A?
What are the main categories of student awards offered by Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
What are the three units of Stagecraft that have a class schedule for Tuesday and Friday?
 How was the audio quality of the generated speech evaluated in the experiments?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Multivariate Calculus and Matrix Algebra with Applications?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 9:30 AM?
What are the names of the teachers who taught at POS 153 during the given time period?
In which room does Course 1403 take place?
What is the name of the event where Carnegie Mellon's men's golf team plays?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
 What are the standard deviation values used to normalize each color channel in the ImageNet dataset?
 What is the human performance success rate mentioned in the text?
 What are the two diffusion approaches investigated for combinatorial optimization in the text?
 How many queries are there in the MS MARCO development set?
 What was the significant interaction found for ECOG PS score?
What is the purpose of linguistic typology and universals?
What are the course codes for Introduction to Materials Selection and Selection and Performance of Materials?
What is the name of the center that provides dining services at the university?
 What is the role of the mapping network in the proposed multimodal language model?
 What does the DSR-without-LM model take as input?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
 What is a prominent feature of E2E systems discussed in the text?
What are the names of the three students who will be presenting their thesis research and writing in the field of Costume C?
What is the significance of the number 30 in this context?
How can students prevent their name and address from being published in the campus directory?
Can graduate students complete their degrees early? If so, under what circumstances can they do this?
What is the purpose of OIE's cross-cultural events?
 After all the beams are stopped in the algorithm, what is done next?
Who were some of the theoretical computer scientists that Shafi met during her time at Berkeley?
 What information is provided to the reward model in Factually Augmented RLHF?
 What training set did the models trained with A-LOL and its variants consistently outperform according to the text?
Who performed at the recital?
What is the role of Carnegie Mellon University's transcript in recording cross-registration program courses?
When is the 'Programming and Data Analysis for Social Scientists' course held?
What happens if there are remaining open seats after all department-reserved seats in a course?
 What is the overall training objective of the proposed KD-DLGAN?
What is the name of the course taught by Erol at TEP 2613 on MW from 02:00PM to 03:20PM?
What kind of relationships are prohibited according to the policy?
 What method does the ACL algorithm use to compute expertise between papers and reviewers?
What is the application process like?
 Which model shows the highest BLEU score for translating Finnish idiomatic sentences?
What are the names and schedules of the instructors teaching 'Advanced Synthesis Options Studio II'?
What time does the last class start and end?
Who are the instructors for the Brown course?
What is the name of the course that starts at TBA on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room HL 106B?
What is the phone number of Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the authors listed alphabetically?
What is the purpose of the 'Contact Us' section?
What are the locations of the lecture halls mentioned in the text?
Where is the Academic Calendar located?
What are the days and times of all chemistry courses taught by Vuocolo?
What are the course names of all three classes being taught by Jafry O'Connor according to this schedule?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Mulvihill?
How many credits does Innovation of Services & Experiences have?
 What were some of the domains identified as unique to UE transplantation in terms of HRQOL?
 Which map service implementation was employed for the content management system, focusing on the northeast US region?
What is the location of GHC 5404 and GHC 6604?
What were the scores of the games played on November 18 and November 21?
What is the course code for Engineering Design II: Conceptualization and Realization?
What is the LTI cluster used for in Ph.D. research?
 What is the language code for Icelandic in the table?
What is the name of the event that happens on February 20th and 21st?
What should be done if an international student wants to do more than one internship?
Who is teaching the 'Introduction to Computer Systems' course in room POS A35?
What is suspended students' option at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the video prepared by CMU Portugal, MIT Portugal and UT Austin Portugal to discuss their contribution and key outcomes?
When does the Senior Capstone II class meet?
What is the course code for Graduate Seminar?
Where are the locations of Advanced Music Studies Recital/Project and Artist Diploma Recital 0.0 A4 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the purpose of hypothesis testing for phoneme-AM predictability mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for 'Music Studio 3-9'?
What is the main topic discussed in Still Boldly Going?
 What does the task of Machine Translation (MT) consist of?
Who did Tartans play against on February 24, 2024?
Where is Gates Center Garage located?
 How much does the data augmentation approach with data diversification improve MT quality on average according to Table 7?
How many hours does Undergraduate Research course last at Institute for Politics and Strategy?
 What is the purpose of the two heuristics adopted for the relational task?
What are the names of the courses offered from 57619 to 57620?
What are the credits for Advanced Editing & Publishing course?
What is the policy for switching advisors in this program according to the handbook?
What is the course code for Signals and Systems?
What services does Parking and Transportation coordinate for CMU students, faculty, and community?
What are the contact details of Amber Vivis?
What is unusual about Microsoft's research organization according to Eppinger?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
What are the GRE and TOEFL report codes required by this institution for international students?
What is Julianna McFarland's position and class level?
What is the purpose of exploring interdisciplinary spaces in Information Science and Technology?
 What models have shown promising results in capturing important speech features through training on large amounts of unlabeled speech data?
What is the course schedule for Compiler Design?
Who are the instructors for Modern Regression (TR 11:00AM - 12:20PM) in MI AUD?
When does the Production Prep for Dramaturgy start?
 What is the mechanism in Scone that handles different knowledge existing in different contexts?
 How is language generation tasks framed as an RL game in the text?
What are the topics of the courses offered on Tuesday and Thursday at 1:50 PM?
In which document was this information found?
What are the class times and course codes of all courses offered by Bizon?
 Why is it important to achieve global carbon neutrality according to the text?
What did Palay say about working with Hans Berliner?
Who is the instructor for Philosophy 1.0?
Who teaches the 'Introduction to Modern Chemistry II' course and where is it offered?
Who is responsible for initiating a return to the program after a Leave of Absence?
 In the context of physical HRQOL after UE transplant, what are the three areas into which the topic is divided?
How many years has Coach John Smith been coaching this team?
 What is the observation that CUTTLEFISH leverages to switch from full-rank to low-rank training?
What is the Simon Initiative according to the text?
What are the days and times when the course 'Chemical Research' is held?
 What were the two approaches for integrating information in the HuBERT-MR model?
Where are the instructors mentioned in this text located?
What is the page number in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook where this rule about pass/fail grades can be found?
 What is the purpose of sequence normalization in the training phase?
What is the course code for Supervised Reading 1-12?
 What is the effect of idiom frequency on translations by Google in French?
What is the role of academic departments in discussing academic accommodations with students seeking Parental Accommodations?
How does Boss detect and track other vehicles at long ranges?
Who is teaching the course 'VAR Directing'?
Who are the instructors mentioned in this text with the last name starting from I to P?
What are the days and time of Requirements for Information Systems course?
In which room does Barr teach MSCF Business Communication II B?
What are the names of the instructors for Wu P2 and Zollman R2?
What is the title of Martello's course and when does it meet?
What are the names of the three professors teaching in WEH 5310?
 What is the learning objective when given two random variables in the analysis?
What is the name of the center that focuses on religious and spiritual life initiatives at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does Ania McMahon's External Relations: Sponsorships & Institutional Giving course take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the focus of ENGAGE in Wellness: Looking Forward?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Maker Series: Intro to Modern Making?
What is the meeting time of Production Management C on Wednesdays and Fridays?
What is the course code for User-Centered Research and Evaluation?
What are the names of the courses offered at Pennsylvania Rosen?
What is the course code for Practice Teaching (Secondary)?
 What is the size of the ∆LM-base transformer encoder-decoder model mentioned in the experimental settings?
What is the title of the course being taught at 10:00 AM on Monday?
Where is the MLT Graduate Student Handbook located?
What is the name of the course that starts at 10:00 AM in New York, New York?
What does Berliner think about a system based on statistical analysis of massive data sets?
Which player is from Arcadia, California?
What are the class times of the two acting courses mentioned in this text?
What are the areas of concentration offered for MIIS: Advanced Study degree?
Where is the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook located?
What are the days and times of the courses taught by Justice Singh?
What type of surface is used on the playing field at Gesling Stadium?
 What load and thickness values were used in the stress diagram of crack propagation?
What are the course codes for 'Intermediate French I' and 'Intermediate German I', respectively?
What rights do students have under the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)?
 What is the key capability of FROMAGe mentioned in the text?
What should a student present to the program administrator for reimbursement?
Who are the instructors for Directed Research B?
What do you need to use the meters for parking?
 If the number 40.6 was followed by 2.7, 44.4, 47.9, what number would come next in the sequence?
Where can you find more details about printing facilities provided by SCS Computer Facilities?
 How are traditional speech features typically derived in speech processing models?
 According to the text, what contributes to the effectiveness of the proposed system?
 What were the three dimensions of empathy covered in the survey?
What is the name of the course offered by Instructor B at DNM DNM location?
 What are the reported effects on speech for DISP1, LEFTY1, LEFTY2, and BPNT1?
Who teaches Dissertation Research Practicum?
What can students do if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Goranson?
What are the names of instructors teaching each course?
What is the topic of the lecture by Cervas in BH A51?
How long does it take to complete a master's program?
Can a student transfer credits according to the text?
When and where does Chorus take place?
 How do retrieval augmented LMs commonly operate?
What was the overall record for the Tartan Men's Tennis team in the 2023-24 season?
When does Wang teach Chinese Calligraphy: Culture and Skills at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is the instructor for Elementary Spanish I and II, and what are their credits?
What are the names of Budnik's classes in HH 1305?
Where is the lecture for Ada, Saad C F held?
Where are the classes taught for the following courses: M.S. Graduate Project - AIE Producers and M.S. Graduate Project - AIE Consumers?
What is the course code for Ageitos's class in Vector Calculus for Computer Scientists?
What is the course code for Exploring Creative Writing in Community?
 What models were used for NQ and OTT-QA experiments?
Who did the team play in their first match of the Franklin & Marshall Tournament?
What are the class times and locations for Cognitive Neuroscience (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Olson) and Perception (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Klatzky)?
What are the timings of Zhang's class (B2) in 19867?
What is the purpose of publishing an annual campus security and fire safety report?
What is the location of the course 'Browser Security', and what are its timings?
 Which model shows improvements due to instruction-tuning for Jais-chat of +0.7, +3.2, and +1.9 points?
What are the two EPP Projects courses?
 What are some limitations of large pretrained language models when deployed in user-facing applications?
What is the course title of da Silva Sousa's Special Topics in Integrated Systems Technology class?
 Why is training the model on OpenSubtitles and testing on Ted Talks important?
What is the location of the first lecture in Calculus II?
What is the role of the designated college liaison in The HUB for international students?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' button in the text?
Does Carnegie Mellon University offer doctoral programs in computer science? If so, how many?
What is the location of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania according to the text?
 Why was the requirement for written informed consent waived by the Institutional Review Board?
What is the name of the award given to recognize research excellence at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
 What limitations are mentioned in the text?
Who can apply for an interest-free loan at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the process for setting tuition each year for MCDS program?
 What issue can arise when obtaining meta gradients with noisy Hessian-vector products?
What is the minimum number of units required from 'SCS' courses in order to complete the PhD in Language and Information Technologies degree?
What are the instructors teaching on MWF from 11:00AM - 11:50AM?
What are the days and times for Architecture Design Studio: Poiesis Studio 2 in Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
What are the employment eligibility verification requirements for students?
Where is Hollifield teaching Valuation and Financial Modeling: 9.0?
 What is the approach proposed by the text to anticipate the future in active retrieval augmented generation?
 How does the RNA model differ from the RNN-T model in terms of label output per frame?
What is the course number for 'Guided Research'?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses taught by Willard in CMB at Doha, Qatar Affara?
What are the days of the week when Erdmann's classes are held?
What does the text mention about sharing options?
In which section is the Student Academic Success Center mentioned in A.2?
What does the Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students not intend to discourage?
What are the names and instructors of the courses that start at 06:30PM and 01:00PM respectively?
 What does DIFUSCO use to enhance its expressive power compared to previous non-autoregressive methods?
 Why is there limited research on understanding metaphors according to the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching at DNM DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are undergraduate courses for HCDS?
What are the class names and their respective meeting times for classes HBH 1202, Goranson B2, and Rao?
What is the course code for Jazz Instrumental Ensemble: Guitar class?
Who will be working on costume production for 'A Doll's House'?
Which instructor teaches 'Matrices and Linear Transformations' in the schedule?
Who are the instructors teaching on Tuesday at CMR F305?
 What distribution is followed by the binary variable zj used for structured pruning?
What is the name of the teacher teaching Arab Culture Through Dialogues, Film, and Literature?
What is the course code and title of the Directed Study?
What are the course codes and names for each of the courses listed in the schedule?
 In which city do the Philadelphia Eagles play their home games?
What is ORIC's role in the university?
What should be advertised at least one week before an LTI Ph.D. student's oral presentation?
What is the course code for Puccini’s Operas: Politics of Representation?
When is the Musical and Opera Lighting Design class held?
What is the schedule for Elementary Chinese Online II (PH 226A) and Cultural Roots: Chinese Language & Culture for Heritage Learners (PH 125C)?
Who is teaching 'Global Histories' in Doha, Qatar?
What is the main purpose of Carnegie Mellon University?
Which player from Florida, USA is playing in position M with the number 6 on her jersey?
 What software was deployed for the collaborative software development platform simulation?
What are the names of the music studies studios mentioned in this text?
When is Mr. Burns: Media Design class held?
How many projects were mentioned?
When does the Private Pilot Ground School course take place?
What is the course code for class B?
What is the course name and instructor for Electronics I?
Who are the instructors teaching the course 'Lear Directing'?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:30PM and ends at 10:30PM?
What are the days and times of Qian's Special Topics: Intro to Transportation Systems Analysis class?
What is the course name for Ramakrishnan and Singh's lecture?
What are the courses taught by Loftness at 11:00 AM on Tuesdays?
 What is the alternate task formulation presented in the text?
What is the course code for Noonan's Doctoral Dissertation?
What are the names of the instructors for Independent Study in Production Technology & Management and Video Media Design Senior Thesis?
 What architecture led to the development of highly scalable language models for code?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What was Hans Berliner's experience with school during Hitler's rise to power?
What is the course code for the Guest Experience in Theme Park Design course taught by Saldamarco?
 How many code groups are indicated as necessary in the text for reconstructing the original input successfully?
What are the course names, instructors and timings for Project Research?
Where is UAA Championships held?
 What was the objective of providing equitable exposure to documents in the system?
What is the purpose of Carnegie Mellon's Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives?
What is Mona Diab's role at CMU?
When and where is the Distinguished Lecture taking place?
What is the recommended review for students according to the text?
 What is the maximum relative difference between MERRA-2 and GRASP/Component dust retrieval in the TAK region?
What is the location of the research conducted according to the text?
What are the names of the courses offered at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for Stage Management D on MTWRF from 6:30PM - 10:30PM?
What are the dates and times of the production preparation sessions for Macbeth?
How often are rehearsals during the concert season?
 Why is reinforcement learning susceptible to reward hacking?
Where did #17 WashU play their game against Carnegie Mellon on Fri, Feb/09?
What are the days and times of Erol's classes for Intermediate Microeconomics in TEP 2611?
Which operating systems are acceptable for the laptops provided by students?
When and where does the Experimental Sound Synthesis course take place?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Literature and Repertoire 3-9 H?
 What type of license is this article distributed under?
 How does ORCA work for different input/output dimensions?
What is the name of the course that starts at 2:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
What are the days and times when 'Rehearsal and Performance III: VAR Put Your House in Order' is offered?
 What does the sentiment score evaluate?
What is the date of the Tiger Invitational?
Is there a fee to purchase programs at the event?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
 What is BM25 and what package is used to implement it?
What is the first name of the second author listed?
How can users perform a more advanced search on this website?
 In which year did X. Xu, Z. Xie, M. Wu and K. Yu present their system for the DCASE2022 challenge task 6?
Where is Eckhardt, O'Hallaron teaching their Advanced Operating Systems and Distributed Systems: 12.0 (15712) class?
Which page number does section 6.14 discuss Housing?
How will members of the Tartan Athletics Club benefit from joining?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
In which page number is this information located?
How many followers does the Carnegie Mellon University Men's Soccer page have on Facebook?
What is the name of the course taught by Sleator on Tuesdays from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
Where is the Advanced Music Studies STUDIO located?
What is the name of the course where Lucero teaches on Wednesdays from 5:00PM to 6:20PM?
What is the age range for players attending the Elite ID Youth Camp for Boys and Girls?
Which institutions did Dabbala Rajagopal (Raj) Reddy attend?
What services does Shuttle & Escort Services offer at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the percussion ensemble that will be held at Stiles on TR from 05:30PM to 06:20PM?
What is the name of the course offered by Artist Diploma Recital?
Where is the location of the first class mentioned in the text?
What is the title of the course that connects with the Pittsburgh community?
 What does ALiBi penalize in terms of attention scores?
Why are official transcripts from each university required even if you received your degree there?
In which room and at what time does section 51620 take place?
 How is the evaluation performance of TASTE compared to baseline models in Table 2?
How many courses are mentioned in the passage that start at 05:00PM?
 What is the purpose of the StackOverflow experiments mentioned in the text?
What benefits are available for domestic partners of students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of Tonguz's course?
What does LTI stand for and what decision do they make regarding transfer credit or course exemption?
What are the names of all classes starting with 'Introduction to'?
What is cross-registration program in Carnegie Mellon University?
Where is the search form located on this website?
What is the name of the instructor for Business Communications class on Monday and Wednesday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
Who is Hans Berliner?
When was the last revision of this graduate student handbook made?
Is this event an exhibition or a conference event?
Where is the SafeWalk dispatch area located?
What are the affiliations of the authors listed in this text?
What is the course code for Beginning Piano for Minors?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses starting with 'M'?
What instrument does Dealmeida specialize in at his music studies studio?
What is the purpose of the multi-purpose court at Highmark Center?
When were the tennis courts renovated?
Where did the Tartan Invitational take place?
What does ITA stand for?
 What is the condition to successfully reject the null hypothesis in predictable AM identification?
How does financial aid work at this university?
 What is one major advantage of neural models in NMT systems?
What is the course title of Severnini's course offered by Caulkins?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What instrument does Harding teach in the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral)?
What are the meeting times and location of Air Quality Engineering: 12.0?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 12:30 PM to 1:50 PM?
What is the course code for Advanced Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics?
What is the location of Larocca B and Larocca E in this text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching classes starting with 'Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Neely'?
 How many files were annotated using the ensemble of two encoder models for pseudo-labeling?
What is scheduled to happen with Skibo Gym and the Highmark Center?
What is the purpose of the 'Apply' section in Language Technologies Institute?
What are the three core courses required to complete the Language Technologies Concentration?
What is the name of the Neuroscience Institute where Reading and Research takes place?
What is The Plaidvocates program and what does it do for student-athletes at CMU?
What is the URL for additional details regarding the Policy Against Retaliation?
What is the name of the internship offered at DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What was the name of the artificially intelligent software system developed by Dr. Newell?
Who are the assistant coaches for Natalie Cohen in Women's Volleyball?
What is the title of the course that Poepping W instructs in Doha, Qatar?
 What is the purpose of the `exec_result` key in the text?
 What are the training data percentages used for CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100 experiments in Table 3?
What was the name of the event where Carnegie Mellon's men's golf team competed?
What is the location of Weight Training: 3.0 and Racquetball: 3.0?
 What technique is used in GIDroid for navigating the space of software variants to find improved software?
How many semesters are there in a year?
What are the three sections under 'Contents' according to the table of contents?
 What is the percentage of the fine-tuning time taken for data alignment in the ORCA model?
What is the location of each music studies studio mentioned in this text?
What is the course taught by Professor Brownlee at 6:00PM on Tuesday in room PCA 305?
How many credits do each course have according to the schedule?
What is the name of the play being prepared?
Where does 'ETC Cooperative Education' take place, and who is one of the instructors?
What is the name of the course offered by Deserno that involves research?
In what years did Herbert A. Simon serve as the Mozah Bint Nasser University Professor of Computer Science and Robotics at Carnegie Mellon University?
When did the Gates-Hillman complex impress TRAUB during his last visit?
Who is the instructor for Kubler's course on Introduction to Historical Research & Writing?
What are the topics discussed in the Societal Computing seminar at 12:30 PM on Monday and Wednesday?
What is the course code for Business Administration 45701?
Who are the instructors for the Software Management Independent Study VAR course with code 49796?
 In the 2D space, how do objects within the same category or material composition appear?
 How has supplementing training data with explicit linguistic structure, such as syntactic and semantic parses, impacted performance on several NLP tasks?
What time does Larocca 57730 Art of Sonata Performance end?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
What is the location of Naval Makeup Lab: Make Up Naval Lab?
What are the class times and locations for Johnson E3?
What is the main purpose of Carnegie Mellon's Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC)?
What is the purpose of the LTI Orientation Canvas course?
 What are the three major components of an N-layers transformer model?
What is the name of the studio where students learn in their third semester?
When did Carnegie Mellon University officially adopt the Scottish terrier as its mascot?
 How many questions were asked in total?
How many options are available on the Contact Us page's navigation bar?
Where was the person an associate professor of computer science?
What is the name of the practicum taught by Mcmanus in 03713 section?
What are the class times and locations for all classes taught by Professor Fitzsimmons?
Where and when does DeSantis' third class take place?
 How many colored training images are there in the ImageNet ILSVRC 2012 dataset?
What are the days and times for each course listed in the schedule?
What happens if a student is exempt from a required course due to prior courses or experience?
What are the days and times for Seminar in Instruction?
Where and when is the 'Mobile and Embedded Software Design' course taught?
 What does the stable rank of neural network layers initially change rapidly and then converge to a constant mean according to the paper?
Who are the instructors for Cognitive Psychology: 9.0?
Who are the instructors teaching each course?
What does the term 'course' mean in this context?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: External Projects: Production Management?
Who was involved in the establishment of Carnegie Tech’s first Computation Center?
 What are some aspects of meaning preservation that the text did not delve into?
What is the name of the school that Brian Li attended?
What happens if I cannot afford to pay the application fee for a limited number of programs?
What is the purpose of the Office of Disability Resources?
When and where is the class 'IDeATe Special Topics in Animation: Storyboarding' held?
What does The WORD contain according to the given text?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Rhetoric & the Construction of Race?
 What was used to tokenize the input text?
What is the purpose of the mailboxes in GHC 5404?
What is the course code and instructor for Independent Study in Business Analytics and Technology offered at Doha, Qatar?
What is the course title of the lecture taught by Gasper in room 2610 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 8:30 AM to 9:45 AM?
Where is the classroom located for Fundamentals of Telecommunications Networks course?
Who are the instructors at Whipple V program?
What is the course code for Advanced Research in French & Francophone Language & Culture?
Can students find information about tuition on their website, according to this text?
Which instrument does student E, Spacagna play?
 What is the mean number of publications per participant?
What is the process for transferring into the MIIS program at CMU?
What are the locations of all courses taught by Bouck?
What is the course code and title of the Reading Into a New China I: Population, Youth, Marriage, & Housing class offered at 11:00AM in room POS 147?
What is Ebeling's opinion about the difficulty of figuring out if something works in AI research?
Can students graduate under policies that are adopted after they entered the LTI Ph.D. program?
What is the course code for Biochemistry I?
What are the days and times of the fifth class listed in the schedule?
 How do linguistic structures benefit models in learning language features?
Who teaches Supervised Recording at Curtis Institute of Music?
Where can students find parking availability and transportation options at CMU?
What type of courses can students take through Carnegie Mellon University's cross-registration program?
What were the main points discussed during the session on Surface Engineering and Industrial Coatings?
What is the time slot for Production Management's rehearsal schedule?
Where and when does Wasson's Special Topics: Decision-Making Methods for Innovation Management take place?
How can users log out of their accounts on the Language Technologies Institute website?
What is the location of the first lecture in Differential and Integral Calculus?
What are Professor's intentions for designing and building intelligent programs?
What should international students do before seeking an internship?
How does the Eberly Center assist departments in supporting graduate student instructors?
What are the dates and times of Cummings' lecture?
Where is the study conducted?
What is the grading scale/system according to the handbook?
 What was the median OS for the low, middle, and high AGR groups?
What are the three lab sessions for Gregory's Fluid Mechanics class?
When do students graduate under Extended Timing?
What is the purpose of Campus Wellness at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
What is the stipend for graduate students in LTI?
What are the course codes of all courses taught by Mr. Conte?
 What does the conclusion of the text suggest is possible with a little work?
What institution partnered with Queer Athlete and Ally Collective (QAAC) to create this organization?
What is the title of lecture by Breaux?
What is the purpose of Tartan Ink?
What are the options for connecting with LTI?
Who can students contact for more information about Berliner's advice?
What is the course code for Multidimensional Calculus taught by Novack?
Who is the instructor of Exploring CEE: Infrastructure and Environment in a Changing World at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Where and when does Ryan teach General Relativity?
What are the timings for the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty'?
What are the names of the authors who wrote 'Design Thesis Practicum: Lighting Thesis B'?
What is the maximum number of units that can be taken without permission from an academic advisor?
What is the name of the seminar taught by Matthews?
What is the deadline for applying to graduate programs at this institution?
 How is padding handled for mixtures shorter than l seconds in the text?
 What type of memory can the kNN index of Unlimiformer be stored in, and how efficiently can it be queried?
What are the topics covered in 'Computational Biology MS Internship'?
What is the purpose of CMU’s Master’s Student Statute of Limitations policy?
Who is eligible for cross-registration?
What are the course codes of all classes that start at 9 AM or earlier?
What are the dates, times, and locations of the Modern Biology 9.0 B class?
 How did the study correct the loss function for class imbalance in training the models?
What is the location of all instructors mentioned in this text?
When is the Manufacturing Futures class held?
 When is the hypothesis terminated and pruned from the overall search?
What is the class time for TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania S?
What is the class name for MW 12:30 PM - 01:50 PM?
What are the days and times of Machine Learning in Production Software Engineering class?
Where can one find University policies on grades and grading?
 How is the FCP performed in the text?
How many home games did Tartan Women's Tennis team win for the 2023-24 season?
What role did Shaw play in the Software Engineering Institute?
Where and when does Poepping's Clinical Data Science course take place?
When and where does Arabic I take place?
What is the title of the course that starts at 3:30 PM on Monday and ends at 4:50 PM in room HBH 1206?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What was the name of the venue where the recital took place?
What is the title of the class that starts at 2:00 PM in GHC 4307 with course code '47774'?
How does receiving credit for prior coursework completed at CMU or elsewhere affect a student's required coursework?
What type of services are available at the University Libraries according to section 6.9?
What are the days and times when Music History I will be held?
What should students do if they believe their grades were assigned violating university policies?
 Why is model compression essential for on-device processing according to the text?
What is the primary purpose of research at the university?
How many student-athletes were named to a Tennis and Softball Academic All-District Team at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is Manoj Ghuhan Arivazhagan's academic program?
Why did Rashid decide not to pursue a higher degree in math?
What are the dates and times of Statistics for IT 6.0 Z1 TBA CMU REMOTE?
What is the course title of the ninth class listed in the schedule?
Which event does athlete #1 specialize in?
Where is DJ Johnson from?
When and where does Lec 3 of 14761 Applied Information Assurance take place?
What are the days and times of the week when Minden teaches in CMB at Doha, Qatar Affara?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
Which courses have a duration of 12.0 credits?
 What is the architectural style of Lakewood?
Which option is a traditional way of sharing content?
What is the course name, instructor, and meeting time for Donahue's Advanced Process Systems Engineering class?
 How is the optimization objective defined for reconstructing the 3D facial shape?
In which languages are teaching and evaluation conducted in this program?
What are the course names, instructors, and credit hours of Wojciechowski's classes?
Who teaches Graduate Thesis in DNM DNM at TBA?
How many years does it usually take to obtain the degree after completing PDEEC?
What is the name of the course taught by Cox-Boyd?
What are the days, times, and locations of all EUREKA!: Discovery and Its Impact?
 What is the main advantage of GBML-based data pruning with SAMA over heuristics-based data pruning according to the text?
What is the purpose of CMU Alert according to section 7.19?
What is the name of the course where students learn about Chorus?
Why do all LTI Ph.D. students have to complete an oral presentation each year?
What is the course code for Neural Code Generation?
How many hours are each class session long?
Where and when is the seminar 'Preserving History with Blockchain Technology' held?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
What is the course code for Foundations of Brain and Behavior?
When does the Software Requirements and Interaction Design class take place?
 How is federated learning implemented as inference in the provided algorithm?
What are the parking options available on campus at Carnegie Mellon University?
When does the Introduction to Minecraft course take place?
 How many human labels can be generated for the same cost as 20K GPT-3.5 labels on the OPIEC59k dataset?
 Why did the interactive behaviors condition significantly outperform the non-interactive one for the shape property category?
 What are some typical mechanisms of label imprecision addressed in the literature?
What is the course code of Independent Study?
What is The WORD in Carnegie Mellon University?
What time does McDonough's Modern Analytical Instrumentation class start?
What are some options available to students who want to complete a Master’s degree enroute to a Ph.D?
What are the names of the instructors for courses D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S?
What are the days and times of Physics II for Engineering and Physics Students held by Sanchez H?
 What is the difference between full annotation (FA) and partial annotation (PA) in structured prediction?
 What cleaning procedure was implemented on the OpenGPTText data set?
 Which languages showed the largest differences in LID accuracy between HierLIDutt and SC-CTC Conformer?
 How does the crack growth rate change with increasing thickness, according to the text?
 What played a crucial role in achieving better alignment between the agent and the target object in the pick task?
What is the university's Career & Professional Development Center website?
How can graduate students apply for veteran education benefits at CMU?
What are the two worlds of texture discussed in Kelley and Tchetchko's Advanced Look Development class?
What was the outcome of the softball game between WashU and Carnegie Mellon on Sunday, April 21st?
 What is the cocktail party problem in the context of speech separation?
 How is the BLEU score calculated?
 How does Unlimiformer differ from other approaches like Longformer-Encoder-Decoder (LED)?
 How many dialogues are there in the HCEnglish dataset?
What is the purpose of the Transfer Courses section in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
What is the schedule for Wiegand Gymnasium during Winter Break?
 What is the counterfactual example song generated for each song track?
What are the days, times, location, and instructor for class A TBA - TBA in HBH 1208?
 What is the role of convolutional neural networks in ConvLMs?
What are the course codes for GHC 5227 and WEH 5328?
What are the names of the classes that meet in the morning for 'Penelope'?
 What is the name of the best-performing model by Yee & Guha in 2023?
 What is the drawback of starting training low-rank networks from scratch?
How are students organized in the capstone planning seminar?
Who teaches Technology in Japanese Culture and Society?
 What is the WER for the E-Branchformer+WavLM model +Tag-prepend experiment?
What are the days and times of Pennsylvania Gormley's Senior Research Project?
What are the learning outcomes of MCDS Program?
Where is Lisbon, Portugal located?
What is the purpose of the Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where can students find information about the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion according to the text?
How do students register for their courses?
What was launched at Fraunhofer Portugal AICOS on January 10th?
What is the best performance of Carnegie Mellon University's Men's Cross Country team in school history?
What was Rick Rashid's interest in high school?
What happens if an applicant misses the application deadline?
Where can students find more information about academic support programs at CMU?
 What challenge does the reinforcement learning stage aim to address, particularly in terms of potential problems like reward hacking?
 Which language models are implemented in the agents mentioned?
What are the days and times of Ferrell's Foundations: Paint/Print class?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered on Saturday at 6:40 PM?
What is the location of Instructor TBA's class in PH A22 on D at 10:00AM - 10:50AM?
When did Tetrault Research Training take place?
 What type of decoding methods are supported for offline Transducer models in ESPnet-ST-v2?
Where and when is lecture 3 of 'Sign and Development' held?
 What type of weighting does upweighting refer to in the context of loss weighting?
What are the three courses listed in this schedule?
Who led the Tartans to victory over #17 WashU with a perfect night on January 28, 2024?
 How do Liu and Chen (2021) treat the links and relations decoding tasks?
Where is Introduction to Music Cognition Research held?
 What type of encoders are applied to pure CTC and RNN-T models for investigation?
What are the course codes and their respective subjects in this schedule?
What is the time and location of the Management Game course?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Production Prep: Love and Money: Stage Management D?
 What goal is discussed in the text for climate change mitigation in the mid-twenty-first century?
How can students access Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) at CMU?
Who are the instructors for Percussion Studio Performance Class 1.0 A M and Flute Studio Performance Class 1.0 A M?
What is the objective of 11-699?
What is the location of Keyboard Studies (Graduate) 3-6 A taught by Larocca?
 What is done when some gold events are not retrieved in the training set for cross-encoder models?
 How is the sauce made in the Machboos recipe?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
Which department within the LTI is responsible for maintaining the staff section of this website?
What are the days and times for Statistical Methods in Finance 9.0 at MI AUD?
What are the locations and times of the three TEP classes mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes for Independent Study in Professional Writing and Independent Study?
What are the class times for all courses taught by Matthews?
 What kind of machine was used for subsequent experiments in terms of computational resources?
What is Jamie Callan's research area?
Who is the instructor for the Production Prep: Macbeth: VAR Directing class?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
Where is the Study Abroad program located?
What is the name of the instructor teaching the course 'Special Topics in HCI: Sustainable Design: Materials, Artifacts and Computational Tools'?
 How is the error convergence achieved in the text?
 Why is it noted that the filters in MCLP and (6) have very different physical meanings?
What are the days and times for the classes held in room HBH 1005?
 What is the Flow value for the ZeroSum model?
 What is the closest setting to PET and how does it perform in comparison?
What are the class names, course codes, instructor names, days of the week, and times for each class listed in the text?
What are the course names, instructors, and time slots for the courses offered at 11:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
Where does Ndibwile teach his Foundations of Privacy class?
What are the policies regarding course drop/add/withdrawal procedures in LTI Academic Polices?
What is the benefit of one-on-one communication tutoring?
What is the physical address of Carnegie Mellon University's Language Technologies Institute?
What is the format of the titles mentioned in this text?
What services does the Office of Housing and Dining Services offer?
What is the consequence of falsifying academic records or work upon which a degree was based?
At what time does Music Studio 3-9 start on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday?
Where is Managing Digital Transformation taught?
When does Psychology 85102 take place?
What are the names of the courses that focus on Big Data and Large-scale Computing?
What are the names of the courses being taught by Bouamor and Vatanasakdakul?
 How are real and synthetic images represented in the pairs of images?
What are the different types of faculty mentioned in the text?
 How does changing the training data size affect the individual tasks?
What is the name of the department where the Civil & Environmental Engineering course is held?
How are students' degree of fulfillment measured according to the text?
What is the requirement for completing Electives in earning an MSAII degree?
In which city is the Application Design and Development course offered?
 What factor was measured to observe the effect of mask parallel decoding?
Who is the instructor for 'Decoding Media'?
What is the location of the School of Computer Science's printer list?
What are the names of all classes offered by Mackey D?
 What do SSL models capture through training on large amounts of unlabeled speech data?
How can you share information about this project with others?
 What is the main concern regarding AI education in U.S. high schools?
What is the purpose of the Office of the Dean of Students at Carnegie Mellon University?
Which department is responsible for computational biology at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
What is the location of Design Lab?
 What is the title of the first paper mentioned?
 What is Optimal Completion Distillation (OCD) proposed to minimize?
When and where does 30 Hour OSHA take place?
Where are Reilly and Doha, Qatar located?
What is the Vannevar Bush Award?
What is the course code for Introduction to Computer Systems?
What was the final score of the game between Case Western Reserve and Carnegie Mellon on Sat, Nov/11?
Where is the Design Thesis Practicum: Costume Thesis C located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How does ILL differ from previous methods in handling imprecise labels?
What is the name of the course offered in IDeATe Special Topics in Animation: Story Development?
Who supervises the capstone project?
 How do Meade et al. (2022) explain the correlation between improvements on bias benchmarks and deteriorations in general language modeling abilities?
What are the names of the instructors for Interaction Design Lab 6.0?
What is the course name for Campbell's class?
What was the result of the Battle for the Obelisk event on Sat, Feb/04?
What is the process for Carnegie Mellon University employees to receive reimbursement?
What is the purpose of 'Just in Time' Workshops at CMU?
In which year did Carnegie Tech establish its Computer Science Department with a $5 million grant from the R.K. Mellon Foundation?
In which city did Manke-Miller conduct their research?
 Who are the authors of the research paper published in Nat. Commun. in 2021?
What are the names of the performers in event EE?
What are the course codes for GHC 5228 and MI 448?
 How did authors generate synthetic training data in the study?
What are the names of the teachers who teach classes starting with 'C'?
Where does Maya Ducker live/come from?
What is the name of the institution where Societal Computing Pre-Thesis L took place?
What services does University Police offer?
Who is the instructor for 'Production Preparation: Stage Management'?
What are the elective courses for an MCDS degree?
Where is the location of Almarza Advanced Music Studies Studio?
What are the course codes for Sculpture II and Black and White Photography I?
What happens if a student cannot find an internship through the MIIS program?
Who are the instructors for 'Instructor TBA B TR'?
What are the names of the teachers listed who have classes on Friday?
How many students are listed for each instrument in Major Studio (Organ)?
How can students provide feedback to improve their graduate student experience at CMU?
 What is described as an important open question in the text?
 What is the distinction between the bi-encoder retrieval performance under Recall@k (fraction) and Recall@k?
What are the names of the courses offered by ooqi 70509?
 In what field have large-scale Transformers garnered significant attention?
What is the course code for Philosophy 80050?
What happens if a student enrolled in an IPR course section cannot attend all class meetings?
What are the days and times when B2 T 06:00PM - 07:20PM is offered?
 How is the tradeoff between informativity and fluency of the captions controlled in the proposed method?
What are the course names for 21360 and 21369?
What is SafeWalk and how does it help the campus community?
What is the recommended minimum score to be considered a successful applicant?
What are the names of the courses taught by Professor Pal-Agrawal?
When and where does Neumayer's Advanced Topics in Analysis take place?
What is the course code for Proseminar in Computational Design?
When was the Recap and Results of the UAA Championships released?
When is Cervas teaching his class 'Policy Seminar'?
What is the significance of the repeated letters in each author's name?
Who are the contacts for specific colleges in The HUB at CMU?
What is the maximum number of courses that can be taken on leave of absence in this text?
What is Dining at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the role of the LTI form in relation to travel funding?
How can students who need accommodations begin the process at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors for the Avatar: The Last Airbender & The Legend of Korra course?
What are the names of the two classes that start at 01:00 PM on Tuesday in room HOA 160?
 What important directions are planned for exploration in future work according to the text?
What are the dates and times of the events listed in the schedule?
What are the courses under Breadth Courses: Language Technology Applications that can be counted as approved qualifying courses for SCS relevant to MIIS degree other than LTI?
What are the names of the instructors for Mobile and IoT Security and Cyber Forensics Capstone courses?
Where is the classroom located for Introduction to Philosophy (80100) Lecture 2 on Monday and Wednesday at 11:00 AM?
What are the days and times of the Stage Management class?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
What is the main argument of the text?
What are the names of the courses that start at 12:00 PM on Monday, Wednesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 7:00 PM to 8:50 PM in GHC 4215?
Who are the instructors for each class listed in the text?
What kind of information can graduate students find on the Veterans and Military Community website at Carnegie Mellon University?
What day and time does the class 'Artist as Entrepreneur' take place?
What are the days and times of the 'Introduction to Computing for Creative Practice: C' course?
 What is the importance of being able to classify questions as unanswerable in QA models for DST?
What are the course codes for Engineering the Materials of the Future, Academic Variant?
 Why is processing audio modality information considered important for artificial general intelligence?
What technology enables Boss to follow rules of the road?
 Which algorithm performs best under modeling choices that mimic those made in real conferences?
Do I need to complete additional financial aid forms?
 What is the primary goal of the GILL model architecture?
Where was the joint session held to discuss the impact of the FCT GO Portugal International partnerships?
What is the name of the teacher who will be teaching Probability and Statistics for Business Applications at TEP 3808 on Wednesday?
What is the full name of Defade NB?
What is the purpose of SafeWalk?
 What is the range of the numbers provided?
What are the timings for Burch's class at Penn State?
What is the name of the instructor for Japanese Film and Literature: The Art of Storytelling?
What is the role of the Language Technologies Institute (LTI) in offering the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
Where is Fadlallah's class located?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
 What is the focus of the investigation mentioned in the text?
What is the name of the office that provides support for graduate students at CMU?
What is the location of Machine Learning in Practice class?
What is satisfactory progress?
What is the duration of each class listed in the schedule?
What are the application areas/issues that Daphne Ippolito's research interests fall under?
What is the purpose of allowing students to request an amendment to their education records?
 How is the word and character-based LM combination represented in [260] and [261]?
What are the names of the courses offered by Professor Flaherty and Gheorghiciuc?
 What is the major benefit of the proposed TDT models in the fourth text compared to conventional Transducers?
Who wrote 'The History of Biostatistics' and where was it held?
 What kind of evaluation benchmark does Li et al., 2023d provide in the text?
What is the course code for 'Renaissance Counterpoint'?
Who is the author of the text?
 What is the significance of human evaluations according to the text?
What is the name of the event that took place on Fri, Apr/07 at 11:00 a.m.?
What is the maximum duration for which doctoral students can receive stipend funding during a Short-Term Parental Accommodation?
What are the names of the courses listed for 'Wednesday, 01:00PM - 03:50PM' and taught by Pino?
What are the names of all courses that start with 'Foundations of Programming Languages', 'Logic and Mechanized Reasoning', 'Interaction and Expression using the Pausch Bridge Lighting'?
What are the course codes and their respective days, times, and locations for Steier's Health Systems class?
What were the home and away records of the Tartan Men's Tennis team during the 2023-24 season?
When and where is PHD/LCS Dissertation Prospectus held?
Who funded the project for Smart Traffic Signals?
What is the name of the course taught by Anderson at WEH 8201?
What is the role of the Director at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the role of natural language processing in human-machine communication?
 In the experimental results, what is the proposed model initialized from?
What is the name of the course where Shackleford teaches on Wednesdays from 11:00AM to 3:00PM?
Where does Dance II: Pillars to Build take place on Tuesdays?
What is the name of the fifth course mentioned in the text?
What was the name of the research project conducted by Laird in Chemical Engineering 06300?
 What was highlighted regarding the performance of HuBERT-MR-H in comparison to other models?
What is the purpose of the 'Academics', 'Research', and 'Partnership' tabs on the Language Technologies Institute website?
What are the main research interests of Edmund M. Clarke?
Who are the instructors who teach BA and BB in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Hibshi's second and third lectures?
What is the location of the Societal Computing Practicum Internship?
Who is Younis and what is their involvement in Doha, Qatar?
What does LTI PhD stand for according to the given text?
 What is the primary drawback associated with conventional solutions for dataset condensation mentioned in the text?
 What are the three hierarchy-aware configurations for bi-encoder models?
What is the significance of a roster in softball?
 What additional performance metrics are considered in the study besides fluency and accuracy?
When does Chapman B4 TBA DNM DNM start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the studio where Evans, Allen, and Branson teach at in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of Woodruff and Anderson's course on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday?
What are the days and times of Habib's Web Application Development course?
 What is the average Pearson correlation between pretraining temporal misalignment and performance degradation as mentioned in the text?
What is the duration of the event in minutes?
What was the issue raised by a visiting committee at Carnegie-Mellon University?
What is the university policy on grading for transfer courses at Carnegie Mellon?
 How was the relationship between AGR and OS assessed?
 What is the title of the paper by Zhang and Tao?
Can you attend these events in person?
Who is the author of this text?
What is the name of the instructor for Guided Research 3-36?
What is the course name for 'Grama'?
Who teaches Seminar in Business Tech: Human-AI Interactions in Business Decision Making?
How can students contact the language support team at the SASC?
What is the title of the course being offered on Management Game?
What is the role of an academic advisor during probation?
Who are the instructors for Instructor BA and where is it located?
 How are the speech features predicted in the inference process of zero-shot TTS?
What are the course names, instructors, and credit hours of Singh and Malen's classes?
 What are some common evaluation metrics for transcription and translation quality?
 What frameworks are used to train the models?
What is the course code for Acting I?
How are graduate students expected to complete their degree requirements at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Programming for Game Designers take place?
What are the days, times, and location for the Software Engineering Independent Study?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about designing their life?
Where is the location of Devine 66101, one of the classrooms mentioned in the text?
 Under which license was the Pythia 2.7B model released by EleutherAI?
 What do humans tend to have better explanations of compared to machines?
What is the location of the university where Sylvania Mitchell completed her Materials Science & Engineering academic variant?
What is the official source of CMU's academic calendar information?
What is the name of the instructor teaching Learning Media Design course?
Which office handles computing and information resources at the university?
Which department provides support for veterans and military community members at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course code for German Study Abroad?
What does the discovery by Shafi, Feige, Lovasz, Safra and Szegedy imply?
 What dataset was used to compute the dendrograms for the Chinese phylogenetic trees?
Who can access new mother rooms on campus?
What are the days/times for Econometrics I (course code 73274)?
 How is the verification process of COBRACORPUS and COBRACORPUS-CF described?
 Why did the majority of transcribers prefer correcting OCR outputs?
How many moves per second could Hitech search by 1987?
When and where are Mathematical Methods of Physics taught?
When was the UAA Match Play Championship scheduled to take place?
 What are some examples of approaches that use external knowledge like Wikipedia or DBpedia in entity linking?
What are the names of the three composers who will be presenting at the Composers Forum?
What are the consequences for not achieving a passing grade (10) in this program?
What kind of athletic facilities does Carnegie Mellon offer?
Where is Software Engineering Practicum held?
What is the consequence for an individual who fails to timely complete the Form I-9 if they are employed by the university?
How many points did Holmes record in the Tartans' win over Rochester on February 16, 2024?
Where and when does Yasuhara teach Translation Technologies?
 What term is introduced in the text to describe when improvements in hardware speed and reductions in required computation fail to translate to speedups in model latency and throughput?
Who is teaching the course 'Interdisciplinary Independent Study: Topics in Photography'?
What are the two time slots for 'Dance/Light: VAR'?
What are the days and times for Ph.D. Microeconomics?
Where is Das's class located?
What are the class timings for Modern Data Management?
 What is the goal of lexically constrained generation and how is it tested in the text?
What are two accommodations for gestational parents at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors for Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences: 15.0 Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences?
 What do the results of the cross-attention maps indicate about the effectiveness of massively multilingual TTS training?
Who teaches the 9.0 A courses at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
In which room does Jain teach Computational Perception?
What is the name of the event that took place on Sat, Apr/22 at 10:00 a.m. CT?
What is the location of Carnegie Mellon University's main campus?
What does the text suggest about the characteristics of a good mascot for Carnegie Mellon?
What are some nearby landmarks near the LTI?
What is the policy for students who need to take a leave of absence or military service?
What is the name of the award given to Daniel Fried?
 What factors were suggested as potentially contributing to worse outcomes in patients with ECOG PS score = 1?
 What has deep learning replaced in acoustic modeling within the classical approach?
What are the names of the courses offered in this schedule?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Shakespeare?
Who are the authors of this text?
What is the purpose of Technical Opportunities Conference?
Who are the instructors for each listed production preparation course?
 How are patches considered valid in the Fitness section?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Prep?
What are the days and times of the Carnival Gateway Special Project VAR A4 course?
 How is the task family determined for an audio/image-input task?
What should a student do if they need immediate funds due to an emergency situation?
What is the name of the course offered by Willard in Biological Sciences for Undergraduate Research?
 What is the application of meta learning focused on in the text other than few-shot learning?
When are the classes of Literature and Repertoire: Euphonium, Brass Pedagogy, Beginning Piano for Children II, and Collaborative Project in Music E held?
What is the purpose of University Policies and Expectations mentioned in section 1.3?
What are the topics covered in the Communication and Digital Design Fundamentals class?
Once I begin a Ph.D. program in SCS, is it possible to change to another program?
Who are the performers at Instructor TBA B?
What is the name of the course taught by Root and Fang at B23 109 in San Jose, California?
Who are the speakers and what is their topic in the given schedule?
When does Advanced Analytical Techniques take place?
What are the names of all classes taught by Portnykh that start with 'G'?
What is the centralized online application process for in Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science?
What should a student do if they believe their grade was issued in error?
What are the course codes for all other courses listed in the given text?
What are the days and times of the classes taught by Carlock?
What is the purpose of the Media & Events section?
Why did the class that entered in 1968 stage a palace revolution?
What are the course names and instructors for Deep Generative Modeling and Special Topics in Computer Systems?
What is the name of the instructor teaching 'Critical Studies: Once Upon A Time: A Survey of International Fairy Tale Film'?
What does the MCDS program strive to produce graduates with?
When and where is Societal Computing Practicum held?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Open-Source FPGA & ASIC Chip Design'?
What are the three class periods and their corresponding times for Kangas's classes?
What is the course name for the lecture conducted by Younis?
What is the location of the Artist Diploma Recital?
What are the requirements for attaining a PhD in Language and Information Technologies at CMU?
What are the names of the classes taught by Stewart?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
What is the main mission of the university according to this text?
Where can students find more information about ordering transcripts at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the learning rate used for fine-tuning the I3D encoders?
What is the course name for Production Prep: SOM 3 Sound Design K?
What is the contact information for the ROTC and Veteran Affairs Coordinator at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What are the names of the instruments offered in each study?
What is the location of Gogolak B's class?
What is the instructor of each class listed in the schedule?
Where will the Societal Computing Practicum be held?
What is the phone number of the institute mentioned in the text?
 What are the three unique challenges mentioned in relation to conversational speech translation?
What is the purpose of signing in with Google?
What happens if a student does not complete their degree within the standard timeframe?
What is the phone number for contacting Language Technologies Institute?
What is the policy of Carnegie Mellon University regarding discrimination?
Who teaches Special Topics: Sports Analytics class?
When and where do Schimmerling's classes take place?
What is the purpose of the Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures?
What is the email address for Murphy Austin?
 What type of tasks does the proposed approach achieve strong performance on according to the text?
What is the significance of Inter-University Graduate Students of Color Series (SOC) and PhD SOC Network?
What time does Carnegie Mellon play softball against Salisbury on Sat, Mar/16?
What are the course codes and days/times for History 79104 Global Histories and Introduction to the Medieval Mediterranean World?
Where can students find more information about their student status at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the URL for Carnegie Mellon University's policies website?
What are the units of Architecture Options Studios?
What is the name of the instructor for the Advanced Quantitative Financial Analytics and Algorithmic Trading course?
When is the match against Christopher Newport University?
 What is notable about the linguistic richness of indigenous languages mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Bjorndahl I2, Seidenfeld J2, Spirtes M2, and Smith L2?
What are the days and times for Engineering Design II: Conceptualization and Realization?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
 What do the experiments with the HuBERT-MR models demonstrate about model performance?
What additional information can be found on the Computing Services website?
Who teaches Chamber Music: Guitar class?
What are the course titles of the two classes that start at 9:30 AM and end at 10:50 AM?
 What do the authors hope will inspire several directions for future research?
 Why is the walnut sample used for rotation-axis and sample alignment tests in tomography experiments?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Creative Writing?
What are the class timings for Kinetics of Metallurgical Reactions and Processes?
In which room is Laboratory Methods for Computational Biologists held?
 What impact does diarization have on the final recognition score according to Table 3?
Where does the study abroad program take place?
Where can you find information about E-Verify in the document?
What is the course code for 'Chemistry and Sustainability'?
Who teaches Billingual & Bicultural Experiences in the US?
What is the course name for the class that starts at 04:00 PM on Monday and Thursday in room TEP 2111?
 What does recent comparative work suggest about RLHF?
 In which scenario did the interactive behaviors condition perform comparably to the non-interactive condition?
What is the course code of Applied Data Analytics for Civil and Environmental Systems?
 What may trigger different decoding strategies according to the text?
Where is Pittsburgh located?
What time does Introduction to Philosophy class start?
What are the days and times of Modern Physics Laboratory class?
 What is the title of the article by Kisala et al. (2020) that introduces the TBI-QOL Independence item Bank?
According to the text, when did Berliner retire from CMU?
What are the titles or positions mentioned for each person?
What are the obligations that students have once they undertake something at Carnegie Mellon?
 How many epochs are used to train the segmentation model?
What are the days and times when Italian Diction class is held?
When does Beginning Piano for Children I class start?
What is the course code for Introduction to Astronomy: 9.0 Introduction to Astronomy?
What is the purpose of the university policy mentioned in this text?
What is the name of Aoun's Special Topics - Capstone course?
Is there a 'Grandfather' policy in place at LTI Academic Policies?
 What was the classification precision of ChatGPT compared to human gold labels?
What does 'o' stand for in the text?
What is the main topic discussed in this text?
What is the course code for Calculus I?
What resources are available for students who have been impacted by sexual misconduct or retaliation?
Which courses have a time slot of MW (Monday-Wednesday)?
Which university was playing Mount Union in baseball match on February 25 according to standings?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
 What is the primary focus of the calculation method discussed in the text regarding the secondary transfer of residual prestress?
What kind of practical experience do MIIS students gain?
Who is the instructor for the course 'Financial Statements & Analysis for Architectural Engineering'?
What are the names of the subjects listed under '57503'?
What are the days and times of Statistical Mechanics class?
At which university did Dr. Clarke teach before joining Carnegie-Mellon University?
What does the MLT Graduate Student Handbook provide?
Where is the Premo Literature and Repertoire class held?
What is the location of Understanding and Critiquing Generative Computer Vision class?
 What sampling technique is proposed for inference in the text?
What is the name of the subject being taught in Stagecraft Sound (2 units) G3?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
 What happened to the separation performance of the multi-channel TF-GridNet after joint fine-tuning?
What are the days and times of Block's Scenic Design class?
On what page can you find information about transfer credit versus course exemption?
 In the table provided, what value is found at the intersection of Google and 0-shot?
What is the name of the course taught by TBA Instructor Z at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What was the role of Michael Sipser in Shafi's work on zero-knowledge proofs?
What are the names of the two lectures mentioned in the text?
Name one course from each category that is part of Example 2.
Where can one find more information about these services?
What is the name of the course that teaches students about design studies related to place?
What are the dates and times for Production Prep classes in Pittsburgh?
What are the names of the courses that start with 'Production Prep: TBA 1'?
Who are the faculty members that have been recognized as 2023 ACM Fellows?
When is the class offered on Tuesday at 4:00 PM - 5:45 PM (TEP 2119)?
What are the time slots for Macbeth Lighting and Sound Design?
What is the course code and title of the course offered by Dr. Chalacheva in this semester?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday?
Where can I find instructions and ordering transcripts?
What is the course name for the class with a duration of 0-24 credits?
Who are the academic programs represented by the following individuals?
What is the purpose of the Wright-Rogal Chapel in the University Center?
What instruments are taught in Wu Advanced Music Studies Studio?
What did Scott think should have been introduced earlier in the university?
How many pages does this text represent according to the given information?
What is the name of the course that teaches Introduction to Lighting Technology?
What happens if a student commits an Academic Integrity Violation for the second time in the MCDS program?
Who is the Project Manager for Styles 6.0?
 How does the IBWBS help in terms of computational complexity according to Table 3?
 What is the driving force equation in the one-mass model of the vocal folds?
What are Alon Lavie's roles and research areas?
What is the purpose of the Office of International Education at Carnegie Mellon University?
When must a reimbursement request for pre-approved conference or workshop travel expenses be filed?
What is Leach teaching at 10:00 AM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What is the purpose of the search form on this website?
What is the purpose of the RSLI at this institution?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
What are the office details of Alexander Waibel?
How can speakers of technologically poor languages benefit from language technologies?
 What types of Abstract Measures (AMs) are computed from the predefined landmarks on the 3D face representation?
What are the types of documents and reports available on their website?
What is the location of Statistics and Data Science Study Abroad course?
When is Interaction Design Fundamentals held?
What is the name of the course offered on Tuesday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
 Where can one find more information about famous tourist areas in Abu Dhabi?
 Why does the text suggest that SELF-REFINE is beneficial for the Constrained Generation task?
What is the objective of 11-654?
What is the name of the course that takes place AA on BXA Studio (1st semester) in room DNM and has 9.0 credit hours?
What is the responsibility of each member of the Carnegie Mellon community according to this document?
What is Microsoft investing heavily into?
What is the name of the seminar for Peer Mentors?
 What limits the number of TTS systems to less than four in the multi-task framework experiments?
What is the time duration of the last meeting in this text?
What is the course code for Independent Study in the Computer Sciences?
What is the purpose of the Carnegie Mellon University Tartan Athletics Club?
What is the purpose of the LTI cluster in the context of graduate student projects?
What should supported students do during winter break?
What are the time slots for Penelope's Advanced Entertainment Lighting Programming Lab?
What should a student do if they want to transfer out of the MIIS degree program?
What are the three types of funding grants mentioned in the text?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
 What does the text suggest about LLM evaluators when prompted for AUTOMQM?
Where can you find information about retail stores in the University Center?
Who are the instructors for Reasoning with Data C and D courses?
What is the name of Carnegie Mellon's centralized career center?
In which room is Writing for Information Systems Management 6.0 held?
Where is Reading and Research in HCI: 24-48 held?
What is the course code for Digital Service Innovation offered on Tuesday at 05:00 PM?
Who are the instructors for Graduate Research Seminar II course?
 What does the attention mechanism in AED models allow the model to do during inference?
What is the purpose of diving to the wreck of the Titanic?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Mondays and Wednesdays from 10:00 AM to 11:50 AM in WEH 8427?
 What is the main challenge in achieving non-autoregressive (NAR)-level speed through inference parallelization?
What is the name of the program that Knox T teaches at?
Where are the classes taught by Liginlal held?
 How is the model training process described in the text?
 What is the focus of the paper by Yosuke Kashiwagi et al.?
What is the course code and title of the independent study offered by Ishizaki?
What is the course title for Gonzalez 76464?
What instrument does Howard teach in Elective Studio?
 Which libraries were used for training control in the implementation of the models?
 What are some features of the modular design of ESPnet-ST-v2?
Are Affiliate ID Cards available for graduate students?
What services does the University Libraries offer?
What are the class locations for Intermediate German I and II?
Which team won the PAC Women's Indoor Track and Field championship on Feb 23?
When does the tenth event occur?
What are the dates and times of Information Security Thesis VAR A TBA DNM DNM HBH?
Who can students contact if they have questions about the process of requesting accommodations from the Office of Disability Resources?
What is the eligibility criteria for Master's students who receive an academic stipend funded by Carnegie Mellon?
When does SafeWalk operate?
How can students who need accommodations begin the process of receiving them?
What is the name of the press release announcing Herbert Simon as recipient of the 1978 Alfred Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences?
What are the days, times, and locations of Yandun and Silwal's course?
What is the course code and title of Murshid's class?
What should students do before taking an elective outside of SCS?
What are the options available on this website's navigation bar?
What is mentioned about Graduate Student Assembly in the text?
What are the dates and times of the IDeATe: Design Essentials for Laser Cutting course?
What are the names of the courses being taught in this schedule?
What should students in course work consider when planning their semester away due to pregnancy?
What are the course codes and titles for Root's courses in Special Topics: Generative Leadership?
What are the days and times of all sections of Parallel and Sequential Data Structures and Algorithms?
Who is Cody and what are their scheduled classes?
When does the 'Dance Lighting Design 1' course start?
Where are the courses taught at Doha, Qatar for Phelps X and 67505?
Where can additional information about SafeWalk be found?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
 What is the second approach mentioned for detecting machine-generated text?
When does Advanced Fiction Writing: Adv Fictn Workshop take place?
What are the days and times of the classes for 57108 Elective Studio (Jazz Piano II Class) and 57112 Movement and Dance II?
Who is the instructor for Costume Design G?
How can students receive accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What was the date and time of the Men's Track and Field team's event at Dave Labor Invitational?
What is the name of the ensemble that will perform Trumpet Literature and Repertoire at F 01:00PM in CFA ACH?
Who was in charge of running the place at Carnegie-Mellon?
What is the requirement for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
What was announced on May 10, 2017?
What was the problem with Intel's Pentium chip in 1994?
When and where is the 'Decision and Risk Modeling' class held?
What is the course 'Special Topics in Music: connection to self and others through music C M 10:00AM 11:50AM TBA' about?
Who teaches Elective Studio (Flute)?
What academic programs do the authors of this text represent?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
What is the contact number to request an escort with SafeWalk?
What is the name of the institution that offers Graduate Composition Project?
In which time slot does Differential Calculus take place?
 Why does data alignment using ORCA facilitate model adaptation according to the text?
 What domains of QOL impacted by UE transplant were documented by the research team?
Where is the Music Studies Studio located?
What is the location of the school mentioned in the text?
What was the name of the event held on April 14th?
According to the text, what is Professor's CV brief about?
What are the course names and their respective instructors for Readings in Clinical Psychology, Readings in Developmental psychology, Readings in Cognitive Psychology, Reading in Social Psychology, and Research in Psychology?
What are the names and schedules of the instructors teaching 'Advanced Synthesis Options Studio II'?
What is the hometown of athlete number 7?
What are the course codes, titles, days, times, and locations of the courses taught by Gogolak?
What is the purpose of the university's Career & Professional Development Center?
What is the location of Shenandoah University, where Tartans Women's Soccer team played a game on September 9?
What is the name of the instructor for Negotiation and Conflict Resolution class?
What are the dates of the Teaching Techniques for Computer Science: 2.0 workshop?
What is the name of the course offered in Infinite Rooms: Photography and Installation?
 What are some typical frameworks for automatic speech recognition (ASR) mentioned in the text?
What are the dates and times for the Graduate Research Club?
What is the purpose of the LTI Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations?
When and where is 57109 Elective Studio (Guitar Class) held?
What is the current status of the East Campus Garage's main entrance?
What are the units of Architecture Design Studio: Poiesis Studio?
What is the name of the office that provides religious and spiritual life initiatives at CMU?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 8:15 PM to 9:30 PM, taught by Markovitz?
Who is Steranka W in this context?
What is the course code for 'Corporate Financial Reporting' that starts at 10:00AM on Tuesday in TEP 2118, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the IBM machine that beat human chess champion Garry Kasparov in 1997?
What is the name of the instructor for Teaching Apprenticeship - Spanish C?
What are some resources available for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the courses included in Example Course of Study #1?
Where can students find information about intellectual property policy in the MCDS degree program?
What is the name of the ensemble that will be performing on Tuesday at 4:00 PM?
What are the names of the courses taught by Instructor TBA?
What are the policies related to university financial aid?
What is the topic of Shamos's class?
What does the MSAII program stand for?
What is the title of the Behavioral Decision Making course being offered?
Who teaches Leadership Identity 4.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who should students contact if they have concerns about the application of and compliance with Carnegie Mellon University's non-discrimination policy?
What was the first step taken by Stephen Smith's team to develop Smart Traffic Signals?
Where can you find information about all mentioned library locations and hours, online resources, and FAQ's?
How many instructors are there for each production preparation class?
Where and when is the course 'Introduction to Modern Chemistry I' held?
 What type of analysis was conducted in addition to Odor Activity Values and Ion Mobility Spectrometry?
What is the course code for Bowling's 'Advanced DP3: Drawing' class?
Which universities did he teach at before joining CMU in 1982?
What is the policy on transferring out of the MCDS program?
Who are the instructors for Instructor D and where is it located?
What is the role of the Student Support Resources team?
 What does the proposed method aim to reduce in the hybrid MMC system?
What is the name of Shen's class at 11:00 AM?
Where can students find detailed information about university health insurance requirements and fees?
What is the name of the class that starts at 7:50 PM on Wednesdays?
What are some nearby landmarks near the LTI?
What is the course code of 'Computing@Carnegie Mellon - H3'?
What are some examples of resources offered by the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs?
What is the subject matter of the courses listed in the text?
Where can students find additional resources and offices to consult during their tenure at Carnegie Mellon University?
 In what setting does Jacobian-free backpropagation show that approximating the base Jacobian as an identity matrix can be understood as preconditioning the original meta gradient?
When and where will Ray's Foundations: Risk, Agency, Failure class take place?
When and where is Directed Research offered?
Where are the undergraduate research and independent study courses being conducted?
What is the course taught by Silva and Harris in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How can one contact the Language Technologies Institute?
What are the names of the courses listed?
What did Berliner achieve in his research on computer chess?
What are the course codes for the two cognitive neuropsychology courses?
What is the location of the Doha, Qatar class?
Where and when does Dynamic Network Analysis take place?
What are the four key offices mentioned under Key Offices for Graduate Student Support?
How many independent study courses are offered in total?
What is the significance of A.2 in the provided text?
What is the name of the course being offered in section 51744?
What is the course code and title of the class?
What is the significance of the Scottish terrier costume at athletic events?
Which team did the Tartans defeat on February 24, 2024?
When and where is Corporate Financial Reporting A2 TR 02:00PM - 03:45PM held?
What are the three courses offered by Language Technologies Institute?
Who wrote the paper 'On the criteria to be used in decomposing systems into modules'?
What are the course codes and their respective times for Koerner's Engineering Statistics and Quality Control class?
What is the course code for Statistics and Data Science Study Abroad?
What are the names of the instructors who teach on Monday, Wednesday, Friday at 08:45AM-09:35AM in CMB 3178 Doha, Qatar?
Who are the affiliated faculty at Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the passage for the Production Management C course?
Who represents Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program among the authors?
 What does Figure 9 show?
 Why were no improvements found to bandwidth?
 What method is proposed for data-free knowledge distillation for object detection?
What are the names of the courses starting with 'Intro to Welding', 'Machine Design I', and 'Advanced Entertainment Lighting Programming Lab VAR A'?
What is the purpose of sharing content according to the given options?
What are the course name and instructor for Special Topics in Computer Systems?
 What is the purpose of SemanticSTF in the experiments mentioned in the text?
What is the topic of the course taught by Anklesaria?
What are the days and times of Reducing Conflict Around Identity and Positionality seminar?
Who are the instructors for Digital Ethnography?
 What is the trend observed in the number of ties for RL1 as 𝑚 increases?
What are the standard information outlined in the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the course code for Architecture Design Studio: Praxis Studio 2?
On what date and time does the Women's Tennis team play against Sacred Heart?
What is the course code of Water Resource Systems Engineering?
What is the course code for Elementary French I offered in-person at PH 126A?
What is the course code for 'Capstone'?
 How are the derivatives of F with respect to beta and delta obtained in the text?
 What are the implications of pretraining misalignment on NLP evaluations?
What should be done if a sponsored student does not have any tuition problems?
 What features are computed to determine the similarity between images and captions in the study?
Who is teaching the 'Production Prep: Schauspieldirektor/Telephone' session for Carnegie Scenic?
 What two forms can the query q take in the context of the described task?
What is the name of the class taught by Ms. Swierc in PCA 318 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 9:30 AM?
Name two courses that start at 10:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.
When and where does Stump's Study Abroad take place?
Where did Shafi Goldwasser receive her Franklin Institute Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science?
What does ORIC do to ensure that research is conducted properly and ethically?
What programming languages has the author worked on for software-development environments?
 What is the purpose of HTS-AT, developed by K. Chen, X. Du, B. Zhu et al.?
 What is the main focus of the first paper described in the text?
What are the topics discussed in 'Grand Challenge Seminar: Realizing Human Rights'?
What happens during an academic probation period?
What is the deadline for submitting an application for Language Technologies programs at the School of Computer Science?
 What are the two significant challenges posed by the development of multilingual dialogue systems?
What kind of language and cross-cultural support is available for students?
What are the names of the three student-taught courses that start at 7:00 PM?
What are the standards of conduct expected from students at Carnegie Mellon?
What time does Principles of Real Analysis I start in PH A18C? Who are the professors teaching this subject?
What are the expectations regarding proper conduct at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who are the instructors in this text?
Where is the second event happening?
 What is BBPE (Byte-level Byte Pair Encoding) and why is it used in modern language modeling efforts?
 What technique is adopted in PointDR to encourage the feature extractor to aggregate random- ized point embeddings to learn perturbation-invariant representations?
What is Carnegie Mellion University's code for students?
What is the purpose of this text according to its content?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
What is the course name and instructor teaching Writing for the Professions: Writing for the Professions in PH A20 on MWF at 10:00AM?
What is the topic of the course at POS 235 from 9:00 AM to 4:50 PM?
What are Madhavi Ganapathiraju's roles and contact information?
What is the course name for Media & Communication Design I?
What are the days and times of the Dynamic Network Analysis class taught by Wright in room 1403?
What are the names of the teachers and their class schedules?
What events does Yitian Zhang participate in?
Who are the instructors of Topics in German Literature and Culture?
What are the days and times of Manriquez's classes?
What should I select under Residency Status if I don't have a visa but need one?
What does the program aim to help students do?
 What is a potential ethical concern associated with the use of IPA?
What is the course duration for each course?
What is the CMU Language Technologies Institute currently hiring for?
What is the purpose of The WORD in Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days, times, location, and instructors for class A TR 11:00AM - 12:20PM in HBH 1006?
What is the title of Sandholm's B course?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
What happens if a student is having trouble in their studies?
Where and when does Independent Study take place?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
Under what circumstances can the duration of a Short-Term Accommodation be extended?
What is the purpose of the 'Learn With Us', 'Collaborate With Us', and 'Connect With Us' sections?
What are the class times and location of Phelps' Cyber Ethics and Regulation course?
What is the main topic of this text?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
Who should students contact if they have specific application/admissions questions about the Master's Program in Language Technologies?
Why do students need to provide an official copy of their English proficiency score report?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
What are the facilities available at Skibo Gym?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Root in Dynamic Teams?
What does the text suggest will happen at Block in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who are the instructors for Graduate Assistantship for ETC?
Who is the instructor for the 'Design Thinking' session?
 How does GILL perform when longer text context is provided compared to Stable Diffusion?
What is the course code for Advanced SIS: Open Sculpture?
What are the names of all classes offered by Mackey E?
What is the name of the class that starts at 8:00 PM on Tuesdays?
When and where does the second session of 'Introduction to Amateur Radio' take place?
Who began teaching the first freshman-level computer programming course in the United States at Carnegie Tech in 1958?
How is the capstone project evaluated?
What are the names of the courses taught by Pennsylvania Moore?
What are the four recommended courses that candidates for SCS should take?
What is the name of Fischhoff's class?
What is the Capstone project in HCDS?
 What is the significance of lexiprecision over reciprocal rank in terms of tie-breaking between ranking systems?
What is required for a final grade in the first semester's course?
 What problem does Zhang et al. (2020b) address in multilingual NMT systems?
Where can students find the Graduate Financial Aid Guide?
 What method is used to calculate the entity centrality scores in the entity graph?
Where can graduate students find enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration and Parental Accommodations?
Who teaches the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty' held in HBH A301?
 What is the training process for the AVSD module?
 In the table comparing the standard beam search (BS) and proposed IBWBS, how much was the computational complexity reduced by the IBWBS?
What is the course Substructural Logics about?
Do recommended electives outside of SCS count towards the “SCS” course requirement?
What happens if an individual's employment or stipend start date/employment does not align with their I-9 completion?
Who are the authors and their respective locations mentioned in this text?
How many instruments are mentioned in each study?
What is the course code for the class that starts at TBA and takes place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
In what room and at what time does the Ethics and Policy Issues in Computing class take place?
 Which subtype showed the lowest %GCV in inter-laboratory variability?
 What does TBI-QOL stand for in the article by Tulsky et al. in Frontiers in Psychology?
What was the topic of Ankit Shah's winning project at NYC AI Hackathon?
What is the course code for Strauss Wind Serenade?
What is the location of the Language Technologies Institute on the Pittsburgh campus?
What are the names of the ensembles that will be performing on Monday?
What is the deadline for submitting English proficiency scores if you have not yet received a bachelor’s degree in the U.S.?
What are the days and times of the C, D, E, F, G courses?
 What is the motivation for a Bayesian approach in federated learning?
How did Berliner feel about playing chess?
What are the names of the three main libraries at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who leads the Division of Student Affairs at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the CTC weight used in the encoder-decoder setup?
What are the topics discussed in section 4.2.8 of this text?
What is the phone number of the institute mentioned in the text?
Where are the authors of this text located?
What does the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) offer for students?
What does 'PH' stand for in this context?
What happens if a student does not make satisfactory progress each semester?
What is the federal act that this university policy refers to?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Orchestration II and Piano Pedagogy IV classes respectively?
How can you contact Language Technologies Institute?
Who is responsible for Scenic Design E in the schedule?
When does 'EPP Teaching Practicum' take place?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered by Rawn in CMR F309?
What are the names of the courses taught by Steier and Ciccone?
What are the dates and times for class 90812?
What are the days and times of Global Economics classes offered at Sudbury?
Who is the speaker in this text?
When was Carnegie Tech's Computer Science Department established?
What is the name of the course taught by Blackwood at PCA 103?
Which courses are taught by Professor Smith and have a duration of less than 2 hours?
What is the purpose of Advising in MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
What types of race and ethnically-focused programs are offered by Carnegie Mellon University?
 Which gene is associated with no significant anomaly reports in terms of speech effects?
Where are the instructors for the Masters Thesis II 5-36 BC course located?
What is the course name for Mechanical Engineering Project 3-18?
What is Orit Shiang's event?
What is the name of the second location mentioned?
Who are the instructors for Independent Study in Research?
What is the course name for Routledge's Business Science?
What does Rashid think about giving back to the university?
What are the names of the courses offered on Saturday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
 What issue arises in the Mask-CTC-based NAR decoding if the number of masked tokens is different from the actual number of tokens?
Can I transfer into a master’s program from another college/university?
Where was the NCAA Championships held?
What is the course code for Graduate Recital (Voice)?
What was Rashid working on at the University of Rochester?
How did the computing environment at Carnegie-Mellon University contribute to its reputation?
When and where does 'Film History' take place?
Who teaches Entertainment Technology Center Independent Study?
What type of volleyball players can attend the Tartan Volleyball Prospect Camp?
What are the topics of each event?
 What is the significance of handling the diversity of human speech in AI systems?
What is the course code for Arguments and Logical Analysis?
When is Advanced SIS: Open Sculpture class held?
How are transfer courses recorded on a student’s transcript at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the two acting classes listed in this schedule that start at 09:30 AM?
 What additional information is leveraged in the Factually Augmented RLHF?
What are the latest projects of HCII?
 According to the text, where does the proposed method for dialogue discourse parsing achieve state-of-the-art performance?
Can I get a waiver from English proficiency test?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
What are the research areas of Sean Welleck?
 During which months does MERRA-2 have higher BC column concentration over GRASP/Component BC retrieval in the SOA region?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Monday at 12:30 PM?
Who should students contact for inquiries about compliance with a statement?
 What is the goal in learning a model mt?
What are the official publications for the Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Electrotécnica e de Computadores (PDEEC)?
What are the course codes of all courses listed in this text?
Who were the joint Turing Award recipients in 1994?
How many authors are there in total?
What is the significance of 'HCII' mentioned in this text?
 What is the lowest value recorded for Afro-Asiatic languages?
What are the contact details for reaching out to the ROTC and Veteran Affairs Coordinator at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is A.3.3 in the text?
 What problem does the study aim to address in the field of automatic speech recognition (ASR)?
 What method is proposed for decoding in the dialogue discourse parsing?
Where was the AT Kenyon Diving Invitational held?
Does the text mention any specific services provided by Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
When are the two offerings of Introduction to Hot Glass I held?
 What are the three main components of the speech processing framework mentioned in the text?
What was Newell's suggestion for naming the school?
What is Carnegie Mellon University obituary with inclusive biography?
What is the email address of Alexander Hauptmann?
What is the course taught by Professor Young at 9:30AM on Thursday in room PCA A41?
 How is the TDT loss (LTDT) computed?
 How do Watanabe et al. propose to improve performance in ASR models?
How long is each reservation at Carnegie Mellon's tennis courts?
What is the title of the first-year seminar that explores biases in computation and cognition?
What are the names of the two courses being offered in Behavioral Economics and Statistical Models for Management and Control - Causal Inference?
 What does the representation feature space in StoryQ do?
What is the location of the first meet on the schedule?
Who teaches Digital Realities: Introducing Immersive Technologies for Arts and Culture?
 What is the name given to the speaker image estimated in the described manner?
 What is the proposed method to mitigate the effect of mismatched pseudo-labels in self-training for unsupervised domain adaptation?
What are the requirements for submitting a TOEFL score for MCDS and MHCI admission?
What is the role of a faculty advisor in relation to a student?
What is the name of the instructor for the course 'Production Management C'?
According to the 'Grandfather' policy mentioned in section 5.2.1, what can students do?
What is the name of the center that provides support to graduate students at CMU?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered in the schedule?
What should a student do if they have questions that need specialized, in-depth attention?
What is the purpose of The Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation at Carnegie Mellon University?
 In which region do large discrepancies exist in BC column concentration between GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC product for all months except in June?
What are the university policies and expectations mentioned in this text?
What types of medical care does University Health Services provide?
What does the transcript indicate about non-Carnegie Mellon and cross-registration program courses?
What are the IELTS score requirements for successful applicants to MCDS?
 What hyper-parameter setting is used for training modified ResNet-50 models on Tiny-ImageNet data?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
Who teaches Computational Biology MS Internship in WEH 5312?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What is the time and location of the Applied Business AI course?
What are the names of Mackey's classes from 5:00 PM to 6:50 PM?
Which letters are mentioned more than once in this text?
What is the purpose of conducting orientation and pre-departure programs for students at Carnegie Mellanon University?
What are the three courses offered by Haden C2 in PCA 103?
 What is the Institute that collected white and yellow Schisandra germplasm resources?
What time does Principles of Real Analysis II start in PH A18C? Who are the professors teaching this subject?
 What does the Macaw QA model demonstrate in its zero-shot receptacle/object masking performance on the three splits of AlfWorld?
 What factor is the PAAP Loss weighed by before adding it to the original loss during fine-tuning?
What is the purpose of having a 'Share' button on an event from the iCalendar RSS Feed?
 What is the approach of quantization-based generative models in TTS?
What is the purpose of Supplemental Instruction (SI)?
What are the types of student activities offered by the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion?
Who are the instructors for Saxophone in the Advanced Music Studies Studio?
What is GHC 4201?
 What method was used to address the imbalance in the dataset?
Who is the instructor for Production Prep: A Doll's House: Production Management?
When and where does Glover teach Valuation and Financial Modeling?
What is the name of the person who teaches 'Actor Dance III'?
Who are the instructors for Shields' second Independent Study in Performance?
What are the names and locations of the courses taught by Pisztora?
 What indicates that the aroma of Schisandra chinensis dried fruits is richer than that of branch sap?
What is the course name for Lec 5?
 Why does the label synchronous beam search require heuristics to limit the output sequence length?
What are the names of the people involved in each event's sound production?
What is the name of the instructor for the MFA Director’s Lab?
 What is the first malicious behavior described in the text regarding interactions with the federated system?
How long does it take to complete a Ph.D. program?
What is the role of the University Police in case of emergencies at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the purpose of reporting bias at this institution?
When and where does BXA Undergraduate Research Project take place?
What are the days and times of Ledon's taught course?
 What real-time factor was achieved by CTC greedy search and its variants using an Intel Xeon Silver 4114 CPU?
 What is the null hypothesis in predictable AM identification related to voice input?
What opportunity does the text mention for growth and engagement?
Who is the instructor for Instructor TBA H TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
How many credits does Introduction to Electrical and Computer Engineering have?
What is the name of the department(s) mentioned in this text?
What is the name of the institution where Cardenes teaches?
Is there any speaking requirement for obtaining an LTI Ph.D. degree? If so, what is it?
What are the locations of Taylor Kosbie's classes in the text?
What is the course code for Study Abroad?
What is the name of the course that starts at 10:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
Who are the affiliated faculty at Language Technologies Institute?
Who are the head coaches of Men's Swimming & Diving?
Who are the people leading each department's rehearsal?
What are the days and times when Information Security, Privacy, and Policy is offered?
What are the days and times of Shackleford's Production Prep class?
 What is a key consideration in the initialization of feedback models according to Askell et al. (2021) and Bai et al. (2022a)?
Who instructs Visualizing 51121?
What are the expectations of members of the Carnegie Mellon community?
What is the name of the course that meets on Monday and Wednesday from 8:15 PM to 9:30 PM, taught by Markovitz?
Who teaches 'Introduction to Embedded Systems'?
What was unique about Emile Berliner's recorded discs compared to Thomas Edison's cylindrical records?
What is the course code for Structure of Chinese?
Who can you contact for more information about the Language Technologies Institute?
What rights do students have under the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)?
What are the class times and location of Moussawi G's TBA course?
Who are the authors of the tenth undergraduate research project mentioned in the text?
What were some advantages and disadvantages Mauldin mentioned about being a public company?
 What approach was found to improve the overall reader performance in the study?
What are the consequences for students who cannot meet certain standards according to this text?
What is the instructor's name for each course?
 Were users of the Delphi user demo informed about the recording of their queries for research purposes?
Where can graduate students find complete information about financial aid at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the benefits of having a CS user id for Master’s students?
Who are the best people to ask to write a letter of recommendation for me?
When does English 76050 Study Abroad take place?
 Which method outperforms all baselines in terms of both sample efficiency and asymptotic performance?
 What does NAACL stand for?
Are international students required by US Federal law to maintain full-time status?
Where was Grace Fujino born and raised?
What services does Computing Services provide for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members and staff members?
Where and when is Introduction to Cryptography held?
What is the benefit of sponsoring a capstone according to the text?
What is the significance of 'Andrew' and 'Wireless Andrew' visions at CMU?
Where and when does Wei's Graduate Stage Management I class take place?
How can one get in touch with the university's media contacts for news and events purposes?
What are the course codes and their respective class times for Intermediate German I and II?
What are the time slots for 'API Design and Implementation: 12.0'?
What is the purpose of Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor B in Keyboard Studies?
 What does LRNNT(y|x) represent according to the text?
What is Mona Diab's goal as the new LTI Director at CMU?
What are the names of the courses offered in Scenic Design?
What are Graham Neubig's research interests?
 How many AL cycles are run for each experiment?
What is the role of external member in a dissertation committee?
Where can students find information about the University Police?
What are the two courses being offered at 11:00AM - 03:00PM on HL A5?
Where was Practicum in Computer Science written?
 How are intents and slots represented in the input data?
What are the dates of the Independent Study in CS Education (Undergraduate) course?
How can students access the university’s wellness initiatives?
Does the CMU Soccer Field have lighting for evening games?
What are the names of the classes being offered by Kovitz and Thomson at PCA on A2 W from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM?
 What system was used in the research, supported by NSF award number ACI-1445606?
 What do the experiments on CIFAR study according to the text?
Where is Sanford Research located?
What is the purpose of the text?
When is Digital Service Innovation held?
What is the name of the event that Instructor TBA's class prepares for?
 What is the purpose of the compression method C in the 6-Layer Transformer model?
What services does the HUB staff provide to students and families at CMU?
What is the role of Language Support in helping teaching assistants who are non-native English speakers?
What was the name of the project that established a high-speed computer network on campus?
What is the course name and instructor for Quantum Physics?
What is the name of the course taught by Hassanzade D?
Who determines how many new students they can take during the Marriage Process?
Where is the Information Networking Institute located?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Research?
 How do patient characteristics differ between high and low CD8+TILs groups based on the data in Table 5?
What is the name of the instructor for BH A51, POS 151 and DH 1112 classes and their respective class timings?
 How much labeled training data was required for the fine-tuned model by Solaiman et al. on RoBERTa?
What is the course code for the course offered on Monday from 09:30 AM to 10:50 AM?
Who are the instructors for Junior Recital Voice?
What should be included in a waiver request for the statute of limitations for the MIIS degree?
Where is Machine Learning for Problem Solving held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the significance of fine-grained factuality detection?
When is 'Computing@Carnegie Mellon - F3' held?
What does it mean for an oral presentation to be 'of conference-talk quality', according to the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the purpose of having an RSS Feed in iCalendar?
What is the purpose of maintaining high standards for students at Carnegie Mellon University?
Do they issue waivers based on previous study at an English-language high school, college, or university outside the United States?
Who are the instructors for each class?
How many different types of design courses are listed?
Who teaches the 'Advanced Real-World Data Networks' course?
What are the names of the instructors for Introduction to Yoga?
What is the course name for Gregory's class?
 Which diffusion schedule is used for fast inference in the experiments?
Are pass/fail grades permitted for courses and projects used to satisfy a degree requirement?
What is the course code of Entrepreneurship Project B?
Where does Rule B R teach Biochemistry I?
What is the location for each course listed in the schedule?
What is the name of the organization that created this website?
Where and when is Economics 73102 Principles of Microeconomics held?
What are the locations of the classes listed in the schedule?
What were the topics discussed during this session?
What was the significance of the Xerox Alto?
In which room does Mayshle teach on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
Is it possible for an equivalent graduate course completed outside of Carnegie Mellon or another institution to be used to satisfy a breadth requirement at MIIS?
 What datasets are evaluated in the PAC-UDA framework?
Can a Masters student use courses taken as part of another degree program toward their M.S. degree without prior approval?
What does it mean when a student has an extended or longer-than-standard Completion?
What is the name of the website mentioned in the text?
Where can you find university policies in full text?
What is the course title for Mayshle's class on Tuesday and Thursday?
Where is the course 'Interactive Data Science' held?
 What evaluation metric is used for TREC DL20?
Where did the Tartans compete in this event?
What are the class names and their respective days/times for classes taught by Gordon?
What is the course name and instructor for Physics of Energy?
How can students apply for a MD/Ph.D. in Computational Biology?
What position does Jack Korzeniowski play?
When and where does French Cinema take place?
 What is the difference between LV Q and previous work in image generation?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Speech Technology for Conversational AI?
What are the names and time slots of Caric's two classes?
What are the days and times when Probability is held?
 What methods can further compress the speech sequence length when using discrete speech units?
What is the purpose of Transcripts in the university context?
What are the permissions granted for personal or classroom use of this work?
 What is the potential impact of Prompt2Model on the community?
What are the dates and times of the events listed in the schedule?
 How many languages are listed under the Atlantic-Congo language family?
What are the dates and times for the Doctoral Thesis Research?
What are the days and times of the Production Prep: External Projects - Carnegie class?
Where is Integrated Product Development Capstone held, and who are its instructors?
What is the title of the lecture being held in BH 136E at 2:20 PM?
Who are the instructors for Instructor TBA D and Instructor TBA E?
What are the consequences for a first violation of academic integrity?
What are the time schedules of each production prep session on Friday?
Which player from California, USA is playing in position M with the number 2 on her jersey?
What is the minimum number of units required for students in order to receive maximum federal financial aid?
What is tied to making normal progress toward completing degree requirements for international students?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:30AM and ends at 10:50AM on Monday, Wednesday, Friday?
What is the course code for Advanced Statistical Theory I?
 What are the correlation metrics mentioned in Table 1?
What is the title of the class that starts at 1:00 PM on Wednesday and lasts for 6.0 hours?
Who teaches Genomes, Evolution, and Disease: Advanced Quantitative Genetic Analysis course?
Who is the instructor for Probability and Estimation Methods for Engineering Systems class?
What does it mean when Master's students are expected to remain in close contact with their graduate program?
What is the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook mentioned on Page 49?
What facilities are available in Skibo Gym for athletic activities?
What are the dates and times of Data Science for Software Engineering class?
What is the responsibility of LTI regarding grading outside courses?
What is the location of the seminar that starts at 11:00AM on Tuesdays?
 How is the forward propagation model (36)-(40) solved in the text?
 What type of tasks are used to evaluate HILL?
What is the class name of Young's classes?
What is expected from a student after completing their thesis in Information Science and Technology?
What is the name of the course for Lonely Planet: VAR Directing?
Who are all authors listed in this article?
 What is the purpose of the logarithmic smoothing in defining popularity?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's policy regarding discrimination?
 What is the purpose of distilling knowledge from powerful generative models like GPT-4 in the VALUEPRISM dataset?
What are the names and locations of all classes listed in this text?
What are the course codes for Digital Photography I and Comedy Writing?
How do I obtain an I-20 form?
 What was the inflection point for AGR in the two-piecewise linear regression model?
What event did Sudjianto win for the first time in her career on October 18, 2023?
What is Professor's research focus in terms of machine learning?
In what room does this class take place?
 What percentage of liver cancer cases and deaths does China account for globally?
Where does Transforming Inspiration take place?
Who will compose the MLT thesis committee?
Who are the instructors of the undergraduate independent study mini VAR A4?
Who approves the expenses for the MCDS program?
How many credits does this special topics in HCI class offer?
In what room is Policy 12.0 A TR taught by Morgan at 7:00 PM?
What kind of resources does GSA maintain for graduate students?
 What method did Sinapov et al. use for category recognition, according to Table II?
How can one get in touch with the institution for further queries or information?
What is the course name and instructor's name for Black and White Photography I?
What did Reddy complete in a later interview about his PhD dissertation?
 How do NSGA-II and NSGA-III select individuals for the next generation in MO algorithms?
What are the course codes and titles for Shaikh's courses in Architecture & Programming Principles?
 How many multi-objective algorithms are implemented in GIDroid for Android?
What are students expected to provide for university resources?
What is the purpose of encouraging students with disabilities to self-identify according to the text?
How does GSA improve the graduate student experience at CMU?
Can graduate students elect the pass/fail option for additional undergraduate courses required to build up their core foundations of computer science?
Who are the people responsible for administering the MCDS degree according to this text?
What are the timings for Music 57023 Bassoon Studio Performance Class?
What are the course codes for the courses offered in the schedule?
What is the title of the course that starts at 09:30AM on Tuesday in PH225B?
What is the course code for Microelectronic Circuits: 12.0?
When and where does Undergraduate Seminar VI take place according to the second schedule?
 What are some of the numerical values mentioned in the text?
What are the time slots for Sound Design for Love and Money?
Who were the opponents of Carnegie Mellon in the twelfth and thirteenth games?
What is the Student Athlete Handbook for?
 What is the expression obtained after integrating the term lambda times the partial derivative of alpha double dotted xi r twice by parts?
What was the time slot of Literature and Repertoire: Trombone class?
 What is the role of Pareto dominance in comparing solutions in MO algorithms?
What are the names of the instructors listed in alphabetical order?
What are the titles of the people listed in this text?
 Why is it considered important for PLMs to learn constructions?
Who are the costume designers for 'A Little Night Music'?
What are the locations of the courses listed in the schedule?
How does ORIC support research at CMU?
 What is the main focus of the ILL framework based on the results?
 What do GRASP/Component BC retrieval and MERRA-2 BC show in terms of temporal variation in BC column concentration over the ICP region?
What additional resources do College Liaisons provide for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the purpose of establishing fingerprint spectra according to the text?
 How does the distinguishability metric in Table 5 compare CodeBERTScore with CrystalBLEU?
What is the purpose of maintaining Employment Eligibility Verification Policy at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What is the main focus of the fourth text regarding sequence-to-sequence tasks?
 What parameter reduction technique is stable and widely used according to the text?
 What does an increase in SSA at different wavelengths indicate?
When does Special Topics: Information Assurance and Security take place?
What is the name of the course being taught by Yoo in Advanced ETB?
What are the names of the two classes taught by Professor Schulz?
What additional requirement is there for LTI applicants besides the SCS guidelines?
What are the academic programs represented by Lakshay Arora and Siddhant Arora?
What is the name of the course that teaches Percussion Ensemble?
What are the names of the courses being offered in the Production Management course?
At what time does the 'Social Web' class take place?
What are the course codes for Cryptocurrencies, Blockchains and Applications, Foundations of Software Engineering, Programming Language Pragmatics, and Software Engineering Practicum?
 What models struggle to generate meaningful Arabic text according to the text?
What year did the person receive their award?
 What is the main issue with large language models (LMs) mentioned in the text?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
Who is receiving an Outstanding Recent Alumni Award from CMU?
What is the purpose of seeking approval for extension due to exceptional circumstances?
What is the duration of the Standard MIIS degree?
Who teaches the course Information System Audit & Standards?
What does 'Share' mean in simple terms?
Who is the moderator for the discussion on the next decades of computer science?
What is the location of Rusinek's advanced music studies studio?
What are some strongly encouraged courses for students interested in the Language Technologies minor?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 12:00 PM to 1:20 PM?
What are the names of the courses offered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that have a duration of 1.0 A2?
What are the breadth requirements that MIIS-21 students need to fulfill?
What sports are Carnegie Mellon playing on March 4th?
 What is the REALTOXICITYPROMPTS benchmark used for in the evaluation of IPA?
When was the final match of Sat, Apr/01?
Why did Berliner turn down the job initially?
Where is the 'Intermediate Studio: Soft Sculpture' class held and what are its days and times?
What are the days and times of Machine Learning for Scientists?
What are the names of the two independent study courses listed in the text?
What is the course name for Bain's class that meets from TBA to DNM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday in room SH 238?
What was the innovation in 1976 by CMU researchers?
 How did TDT models perform compared to conventional transducers in noisy conditions?
What are Su and Zhao's Immersive Digital Storytelling: Using VR/AR to Explore Language Culture Identity?
Where is the text set?
 What is the contribution of the proposed IBWBS algorithm to model architectures?
Where is the class 'User-Centered Research and Evaluation A' held?
What is the date of the Men's Tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Johns Hopkins?
 What is the inference speed-up seen with batched inference for TDT models?
What are the course codes and titles of all classes that start between 10 AM to 11:45 AM?
 What percentage of papers in the dataset belong to the broad area of computer science?
What are the days and times of Ku B's Ceramics for Non-Majors class?
 What did the first microphone correspond to in the evaluation setup?
What are the course codes for Special Topics in Literature & Culture: 9.0 and Major Fiction Then and Now: 9.0?
What is STEM?
What was the date and time of the men's tennis match between Case Western Reserve and Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course code and instructor for Spatial Analysis in Infrastructure Planning?
Where does the Optimization class take place?
Where is each river class held at GHC 5208?
What are the names of the people who work with Bukh C and Conley D?
What is unauthorized assistance according to the Academic Integrity Policy?
Where is Professional Skills for Statisticians II being held?
What are the topics for Telang and Tague's special topics courses?
What is the name of the course for Physical Education 69004?
What are the timings for the course 'Decision Making Under Uncertainty'?
What are the course codes and instructor names for each class listed in the text?
Who can contact the Language Technologies Institute according to the given information?
Where are the classes of 21356 held?
What are the instructors for Production Prep: External Projects and Stage Management?
How many courses are listed in total?
Who is the teacher teaching Professional and Service Projects at CMB 3069 in Doha, Qatar?
Which university got energized about computers due to Simon and Newell's work?
 What are the three modes in which the page content can be rendered in WebArena?
What is the course code for Foundations of Programming Languages?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's policy regarding transfer credit from other accredited institutions?
What is the relationship between CMU's different departments in terms of philosophical approach, procedures, policies, and regulations?
 What is the complexity of the slower code in Figure 6 for modular arithmetic?
Where does the second event take place?
What are the names of the instructors for the 'Production Prep: External Projects' classes?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Computational Data Science program?
What information can the Office of Housing and Dining Services provide for graduate students seeking off-campus housing?
Where can graduate students find university resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where does Music of the Spirit take place?
When does the Modern Languages 82050 Study Abroad start?
What are the names of the two classes that meet in the morning at GHC?
What are the days and timings for Research I 5-36?
What is the course code for Research Communication in Mechanical Engineering?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What is the name of the school where these students study?
How can students begin the process to receive accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
What position does Bennett Grace play?
How many units are required in each semester for the Research Preparation Track?
 According to the text, what do the experiments show about the joint model compared to task-specific classifiers?
What challenges did Computer Science Department face in Mellon College of Science?
 What role does the Perspective API play in the reward function of IPA for the toxicity reduction task?
 How is a user-item interaction history H represented?
What is the name of the university mentioned in the Carnegie Mellon University Statement of Assurance?
What is the name of the event where Tartans hit best marks at Division I meets on February 10, 2024?
What are the class timings for Executive Communication Skills?
What is the instructor for Production Prep: Media Design with Mr. Burns?
What is the course code for Welcome to the Future Lab - Science in the Cloud?
 What do the results in Figure 5 show regarding the relationship between dimensionality and task performance?
What is the location of History of Rhetoric: The Classical Age and Its Legacy?
What is the purpose of Computing Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
Can a course satisfy requirements in two degree programs?
What is the source of this text?
What is the title of the course that starts at 12:00 PM on Tuesday and Thursday in room HL 106B?
What is the course name and instructor for Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence for Engineers Lec MW 12:00PM 01:50PM SH 236 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course for Introduction to Graduate Studies mentioned in the text?
In which class is the instructor for F?
 What regional shifts in wind energy were highlighted in the analysis under the SSP2-4.5 scenario?
How many items are listed under 'iatives (RSLI) ............................................................ 8'?
How many students are listed in this text for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual): Voice AC?
 What does the boundary ∂M of the vocal tract include?
Who are the instructors for each course?
Where does Sarantis teach Computational Linear Algebra course?
 What did Dad enjoy while he was manning the grill?
 What causes the vocal folds to be pushed apart during phonation?
Who are the teachers teaching at 2:00 PM - 2:50 PM on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday?
What is the call to action at the end of the text?
What is the title of the handbook?
What is the name of the instructor for MCDS Independent Study: 3-36?
What are the services provided under sections 9.14 and 9.15 of this text?
What is the URL for the Academic Calendar at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the process for appealing final grades according to Carnegie Mellon's academic policies?
What is the name of the school that offers Casale's classes in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is required to be filled out in advance before a student can receive travel funding?
How many students are listed as having a 9.0 grade in the Major Studio program for Bassoon and Horn?
When must students complete their remaining work if they fail to do so by the end of an academic semester?
What is the purpose of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What were the two most prominent topics discussed in the suggestions that do not fit into other topics?
What is the requirement to complete an undergraduate minor in Language Technologies?
 What do blue dots indicate in the differential spectrum?
Is health insurance mandatory for full-time, degree-seeking students at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course codes and their respective days, times, and locations for the courses listed in the text?
Who is teaching Project III, which takes place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM in PTC MPR?
What is the course code for Elementary German I?
Who teaches Music and Technology Seminar?
What is the name of the course that starts at 9:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in room SH 234?
 What hyperparameters were used for kNN-MT in the text?
What are the three sections of Department Research Honors offered this semester?
What are the course titles taught by Heimann B and Quesenberry C at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the standardized tests recommended to demonstrate English proficiency for applicants whose native language is not English?
 What is the purpose of splitting the dataset into train, validation, and test sets?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Wednesday at 3:30 PM?
When does the E class meet and what are its location and duration?
 Why does the text suggest generating explicit questions for low-confidence spans?
What is Louis-Philippe Morency's academic title?
What is the minimum number of units a student in the MIIS program must be registered for to be considered a full-time student?
Who is teaching the course 'Harp Pedagogy'?
What is the name of the seventh course mentioned in the text?
 What type of network architecture is used for the downstream models in the benchmark?
How many hours are the two Independent Study in HCI-UG sessions worth?
What is the location for Lecture 1 of the Multimodal Machine Learning course?
 What is one significant connection Lakewood has to the University of West Alabama?
Who won a singles match in Women's Tennis?
What is the name of the course taught by Bjorndahl H in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How is the temporal information in the pretraining data estimated?
What are some guidelines for implementing CAPTCHAs?
When is Frontiers, Analysis, and Discovery in Biological Sciences held?
What is the SCS Graduate Application Support Program and how can it help me?
Where can I find information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC Bank, fitness rooms and schedules, retail stores, scheduling University Center space, the public prayer room, student organizations and the Wright-Rogal Chapel?
What are the names of the courses starting with 'Production Hold', and 'Machine Design I'?
 What is the key objective in solving the equations related to the wave Equation (A65)?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered in Physics III: Modern Essentials?
Can a student take any course that could normally count toward their degree if they are exempt from a required course?
When should you take or retake TOEFL, IELTS and/or GRE for the application if you need to?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses taught by Younis in CMB at Doha, Qatar Affara?
Who are the authors of each project?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesdays from 12:30 PM to 01:50 PM in room NSH 3002?
 What are the mechanisms used to create patches in the single-objective search used in GI?
What are the days and times when Advanced Business Analytics is held?
 What can be used to replace scarce indigenous language monolingual text according to Bustamante et al. (2020)?
What did Nico Habermann become after writing the proposal for the Software Engineering Institute?
What is the course code for Topics in Japanese Studies?
What is the role of a mentor in the Carnegie Mellon Student-Athlete Alumni Mentoring Program?
 How is the scoring function s(ep, ec) parameterized in the bi-encoder?
When and where are Product Management B1 being held?
Who are the instructors teaching Cultural History of the Visual Arts and Foundations: Time-Based Media according to the text?
What is the purpose of providing a hotline for reporting suspected violations?
 Where was the AAAI-23 conference on artificial intelligence held?
Who teaches the Lear class?
What was the joke marker suggested by Scott E. Fahlman?
When does the application for fall 2023 open for Master's Programs in Machine Learning?
What is the non-remedial approach of Supplemental Instruction (SI)?
 How is the blank symbol interpreted in an RNN-T model?
What is the course name for Multi Media?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
What is the duration of Independent Study 6.0?
What is the name of the course offered by Oberley in Naval Laboratory?
How can students at CMU access emergency loans if needed?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
 What is the main focus of Figure 1?
What are the names of the courses that start at 12:30 PM on Tuesday, Thursday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the title of the supervised reading course that takes place on Tuesdays from 4:00 PM to 9:00 PM in room DNM DNM?
 What is active learning (AL) as mentioned in the text?
What are the days of the first class?
What did Nico say the Computer Science Department was like according to Siewiorek?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in this text?
 What aspect causes the WavLM model to transition to being compute-bound?
What is the location of the class 'Practical Unstructured Data Analytics'?
What is the breed of dog that represents Carnegie Mellon University?
What was the date when Tartans stifle Rochester for 37-point win at home?
Annette Han works as a what?
Who teaches 'Full-Stack Software Development for Engineers'?
Where and when does the 'Thesis Research' course meet?
What are the course codes for Arana and Chin's courses?
 What is the first step in defining the popularity setting?
How can you contact the webmaster at the Language Technologies Institute?
When does Sender Lighting have its session for Production Prep?
What are the course codes for all three courses mentioned?
 How is agreement in system preference measured?
 What type of architecture does the Token-and-Duration Transducer (TDT) introduce?
 What is MaP in the context of evaluating models?
 What are some of the experiment configurations mentioned in the text?
How does Boss obey intersection precedence rules?
What are the class times and locations for Bowman A4's Racquetball course?
Can you attend these events in person?
Who is the instructor for the Physics I course held in WEH 4623 on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 12:30 PM to 2:50 PM?
How many common core courses are there in the MCDS curriculum?
Where does Research Training: Modern Languages take place?
How can students register for CMU Alert?
What are the days and times when Production Prep: Put Your House in Order is offered?
 How does the text expand the XLEL-WD dataset?
Who instructs Design Center: Human Experience in Design 51173?
When can you reserve a racquetball, squash or outdoor tennis court at CMU?
Does Carnegie Mellon provide financial aid, tuition waivers or scholarships to graduate students in the MCDS degree program?
 How did dynamic retrieval impact the performance of CODELLAMA 34B?
What is the name of the course taught by Chen and Tran?
What is the name of the instructor for the course 'Carnegie Scenic F'?
What did a researcher at Carnegie Mellon University do?
What is the phone number of the Language Technologies Institute?
 How are the first-unchanged messages collected in the text?
Who teaches Board-Level RF Systems for the Internet-of-Things and where are classes held?
What is the purpose of CMU Alert according to section 7.19?
What is the name of the course taught by DeSantis on B3 TR?
Who are the instructors for each class in the schedule?
What instrument does McGhee specialize in at his music studies studio?
Where was Shafi born?
What is the name of the course being offered in HH C108 from 4:00 PM to 5:50 PM on Tuesday?
Where is the Athletics Office located?
Who are the instructors for Krishnan's Independent Study?
What is the name of the laboratory that Vuocolo is teaching in DH 3302?
How many courses are listed in the given text?
What are the days and times for the class 'Design of Artificial Intelligence Products B'?
What services does Shuttle and Escort Services offer?
Who are the affiliated faculty at Language Technologies Institute?
What is the name of the course offered on Friday at 10:00AM in DH 2105, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who developed Java in 1991?
What are the three internship opportunities mentioned in this text?
What happens if a student decides not to return from Leave of Absence?
Where does Tang teach his class?
What was the percentage of students who voted for a Scottish terrier as Carnegie Mellon's new mascot in February 2007?
Who developed Hoare's logic for verifying system performance?
 What were the average hygroscopicity parameters (κCCN) at SS = 0.1%, 0.2%, and 0.3% during the observation period?
What are the locations of Riley Gedawy's class in the text?
Where does the 'Introduction to Flameworking' class take place?
What are some examples of classes that a student might take in Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science?
How many months is the typical duration of the MCDS program?
What degree does one need to pursue research in the field of NLP?
What are the days and times when the class for '54665 Production Prep: Gloria: Stage Management D' is held?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Reading and Writing in an Academic Context (76100)?
Where was the Women's Tennis match held on Sat, Mar/04?
What are the class names for each of the classes listed?
What is the purpose of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the location of the Silicon Valley Residency program?
Who are the instructors for the 80991 Thesis Research course?
 What is the title of the paper by Zhen Zhang et al. published in J. Synchrotron Rad. in 2023?
What are the locations of the two seminars mentioned in the text?
What is the recommended time frame for finishing thesis work after enrolling in the first Masters’ Thesis course?
What is the name of the course held at 09:30AM on Monday through Friday starting from August 31st, taught by Instructor TBA?
What is the purpose of providing Ph.D. students with two types of user ids?
What are the course codes and instructors for Special Topics: Materials and Their Processing for Mechanical Engineers, Special Topics: Welding Engineering, Cellular Biomechanics, and Mechanics Modeling Guided by Fundamentals?
 What is the main focus of the work by Ahn et al. (2022)?
What is the name of the speaker for Conflict Resolution class?
Who teaches the course on Discrete Differential Geometry: Theory?
What type of information can be found on the ID cards for spouses, domestic partners, and dependent children?
What is the course code and instructor of the first course listed in the text?
 What was the RMSE value obtained between GRASP/Component dust retrieval and MERRA-2 dust product in the MED region?
What are the class names and their respective times for Johnston's classes?
What is Anatole Gershman's office location?
What is the responsibility of each student regarding health insurance?
What are the responsibilities of each department during Production Prep for John Proctor?
 What is the trend in anthropogenic black carbon (BC) emission in the Community Emissions Data System (CEDS) inventory over eastern China from 2006 to 2014?
What is the purpose of the MIIS Graduate Student Handbook?
What does 'DNM' stand for in the text?
What is the difference between tartan and plaid?
What time do both events end?
What are the dates and times of the other two courses mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes for Intermediate Arabic I and its instructor's name?
What are the requirements for international students to have outside employment?
What is the course title of the last listed course?
What is a thesis topic in PhD dissertation process?
 What results were observed when fine-tuning on the smaller, high-quality dataset?
 What are some possible reasons for the lack of predictability of anthropometric measurements (AMs) based on the current empirical results?
What are the dates and times for Dietrich Leadership Development Seminar?
 How does using discovered discrete acoustic units instead of directly predicting continuous speech features improve the performance of Im2Sp?
What was the problem with using brute-force searching in chess?
What are the Master's Programs in Robotics?
What was created in 1986 as a joint effort between CMU, the University of Pittsburgh and Westinghouse Electric Corp?
Who received the Honda Prize in 2005?
Who should apply for the University's health insurance plan offered by Carnegie Mellon?
 Does the dataset relate to other ethically protected subjects?
What is the course name offered by Ms. Dollard on Wednesdays from 1:00 PM to 1:50 PM?
Where is the Art of Personal Finance class held?
What are the learning outcomes of MCDS Program?
Where can students find the University's Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault Policy?
What is Kate Stamper's event?
What is the location of Silicon Valley Campus of Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times of the Musical Theater History class?
What is the name of the course that covers Machine Learning for Text Mining?
What is the role of Instructor in Production Prep: SOM 2?
Is the Emergency Student Loan available to all students regardless of their program?
How many key offices are mentioned in the given text for health, wellness & safety?
What is the course code for 'Management Presentations' that starts at 8:00AM on Monday in TEP 2119, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When and where does Applied Machine Learning take place?
 What is the impact of the FIM model compared to the No-FIM model?
Where was Softball played by Carnegie Mellon on March 30th?
Where is Rusinek, Shields' location for Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual) located?
What is the course code and title of the Usable Privacy course taught by Matthews?
What was the significant achievement of IBM's Watson in 2011?
What is the name of the program mentioned in the text that allows us to exploit language data?
Are waivers issued based on previous study at a U.S. high school, college or university?
What is the name of the institute mentioned in the text?
When does Labash E teach 'Information Systems Research Practicum'?
What is the purpose of Computing Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What do the initials 'TBA' stand for in this context?
What was the name of the first robot built by a team led by 'Red' Whittaker for the TMI sweep up?
What is the timings of the course 'Host Based Forensics'?
What is the title of the ENGAGE in Wellness: Looking Outward 1.0 A2 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Stump, Turnshek, Willard, Hovis, Howell B2 TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Hovis course?
What is the name of the instructor teaching 'Organic Chemistry I'?
 What data is used in the experiments on Drug Response Prediction?
What is the purpose of The Link according to the text?
Where will the Media Design session for Love and Money take place?
What does 'Educate Your Team' mean in this context?
What are the names of the professors teaching in DNM at different times during the day?
What is the course code for Stochastic Calculus for Finance II held by Kuchibhotla on R4 day?
What are the course codes for the two courses offered at 12:30 PM on Monday, Wednesday?
What is the course code for Introduction to Biomechanics?
When and where does Gongora-Svartzman teach two classes at HBH 1204 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Special Project II in Dark Ride Design?
In what room does 'Aronson' teach their class?
Where is the Silicon Valley Residency program located?
Where does the Dramaturgy internship take place?
What is the difference between an LTI PhD student who is 'All-But-Dissertation' (ABD) and one who is 'All-But-Dissertation in Absentia' (ABS)?
 What kind of tasks are featured in the benchmark designed in the text?
 What does Offensiveness (Off.) capture?
Who is credited with moving robots from assembly lines to places no human could go?
Who were the instructors for the recital?
What is the combined mission of Carnegie Mellon University's libraries?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesday and Thursday from 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room PCA 231?
 How does the feedback mechanism of SELF-REFINE contribute to refining generated code?
What is the course title of the class that takes place on MW from 2:00 PM to 3:45 PM in TEP 2112?
What are the class times for Probability, Statistics, and Data Science?
What are the days and times of the Design E course?
How many credit hours are associated with each internship opportunity mentioned?
What is the course title and instructor for lecture F at 11:00 AM on Monday?
What is the name of the instructor for the course 'Graduate Reading & Research'?
What are the names of the courses offered by Singer at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the location of Products Studio II: Designing Products for Interactions and Prototyping Lab II: Products?
What are the names of the instructors for Counterpoint in Theory and Application?
What is the significance of the MSAII program's diversity according to the text?
Who are the instructors for Software Engineering Methods and Optimization?
 How is stability detection implemented in the speech processing component?
 What model outperforms the best IWSLT 2021 offline track submission on the 2020 test set with given segmentation?
What is the name of the ensemble that will be held at HL A10A on MW from 02:00PM to 04:50PM?
What is the class code for Professor Barrett's class?
 What software was used to develop the finite element model?
What is the difference in number of dates between months?
What is the purpose of sharing information about ADPI student-athletes at Carnegie Mellon?
What is the name of Series H1?
How many Tartans were recognized on Volleyball and Football Academic All-District Teams?
When are the students expected to meet with potential advisors during the Marriage Process?
What are the names of the courses taught by Instructor TBA in B TR 10:00AM - 10:50AM and C TR 04:00PM - 04:50PM?
 What is the median of the numbers provided?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches at Y TBA DNM DNM in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the streak of consecutive games won by Tartan Women's Tennis team?
Where are Introduction to Nuclear and Particle Physics and Advanced Quantum Physics II taught?
How can students get more information about the process for receiving accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
Who can I contact for more information about Language Technologies Institute?
What is the course code and title of the class held by Rivera Lebron B?
What are the names of the people listed after 'Lopez' and their respective titles or positions?
 Which method shows competitive performance in Semi-Supervised Learning according to the text?
What is the title of the production being prepared in this schedule?
What is the URL of the web page that contains this policy?
 What statistical technique was used to analyze the transcription time data?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 9:00 PM to 9:20 PM in room MM 119?
When and where does Professor Mccafferty's class meet?
What are the course codes for the courses offered by Rawn at CMR F309 in Kigali, Rwanda?
Which section discusses the appeal and grievance procedures for graduate students?
How can students search for courses at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name for 17882 in the schedule?
At what time and in which room does CEE Design: Imagine, Build, Test take place?
 What did previous studies by Suh et al., Hua Zhang et al., and Ping Lu et al. find about the prognostic value of AGR in cancer?
What kind of topics does The Plaidvocates educate its members about?
What is the course name for Lighting Design in Dance/Light: 9-36?
What is the name of the course offered by Mr. Burns for 'Directing'?
 How do some methods select subgoals based on graphs?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
 What are the fitting index values for R2X, R2Y, and Q2 in the model?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
How many classes are there for each course, 602 IDeATe: Learning in Museums and User-Centered Research and Evaluation?
Which player's hometown/high school is Charlotte, N.C. / Charlotte Catholic?
What is the role of the Dean's Office staff regarding Maternity Accommodations?
What is the purpose of GSA's continued funding for professional development and research conferences?
How many students participated in the Three Minute Thesis competition?
What are the names of the instructors for Beginning Golf A4?
What happens if a car is parked in a permit area without a valid permit or at an expired meter?
What are the dates and times of Technology course?
What should you do if English is not a native language for you but you will be studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa?
When will the reception follow after the SCS25 Kickoff: A Conversation with Serkan Piantino (CS'04)?
 How were the ChatGPT results computed, as per the text?
What is the main topic of Dr. Shafi's recent research?
Where does Jafry O'Connor teach his class?
 How is the loss computed during training for the voice recordings?
 What is the content referring to?
What is the time and location of C section of Principles of Software Construction: Objects, Design, and Concurrency?
What is the course title of the class that meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 09:30 AM to 10:50 AM in room NSH 3002?
What is the course code and title of the course offered on Wednesday at 7:00 PM?
Where does Bauer teach 'A/B Testing, Design and Analysis' class?
Where is Energy Conversion and Supply held?
What is the website address of Carnegie Mellon's Religious & Spiritual Life Initiatives?
 Which specific variable was identified as influencing the linear trend between AGR and risk of death in the study?
 What does the content difference of volatile organic compounds in W3 indicate?
What are the locations of each course?
Who teaches the course Mapping Dreams and Nightmares - Seeing and Writing the US-Mexico Border?
What event did Bhuwan Dhingra win at CMU?
Which player's high school was located in British Columbia?
 How many candidate images are generated for each text prompt in the study?
What is Manoj Ghuhan Arivazhagan's academic program?
What is the deadline for reportable TOEFL, IELTS and/or GRE scores if you are studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa?
What is the URL mentioned in the text for more information about athletics at Carnegie Mellon University?
What resources are available at The HUB Student Services Center?
Where does Conley teach and what subject does he/she teach?
What are the course codes, instructors, and their respective times for Physics First Year Seminar: VAR Black Holes?
In which location is the Medical Robotics course held, and what are its meeting times?
What are the names of sections 21703, 21785, and 21765?
What are the names of Kilinc-Karzan's classes?
 Why is using graph structures for multi-hop strategies considered a competitive approach?
What is the name of the course that Harger B, C, and F teach?
Who teaches Welding and what are the class times?
What did Red Whittaker achieve with his Robotic Reconnaissance Vehicle?
Where and when does Weiss teach Machine Learning 10301 Introduction to Machine Learning?
What was Reddy's role in the Robotics Institute?
What is the purpose of studying for 20 hours in section 5.1.2?
 What does Perplexity measure in the context of language models?
 What is evaluated in the zero-shot setting in the consistency evaluation?
What position does Matt Hegi play?
What are the names of the instructors teaching in the afternoon at PTC MPR Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 According to the text, what is the secondary implication regarding the likelihood of adjacent genes in the same cytogenetic region to be chainlink genes?
What is the minimum passing grade in pass/fail grades courses?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered on Wednesday at 11:00 AM?
 What is the setting for Few(5)-Shot experiments?
When is the Sound Design course held?
Where does Jackie Liu live/come from?
When was the Women's Tennis match held on Sat, Mar/25?
In what room is Production Resource Management being held?
What is the email address of Arun Kumar?
Who teaches the Introduction to Machine Learning course?
What is the purpose of having a separate section for Home events?
Who are the instructors at Vosburgh?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses listed in the schedule?
What are the names of the professors teaching at 10:00 AM on Monday and Wednesday in room HH 1307?
 What is the type of radiation emitted by the ionization source of the detector?
What are the locations for the classes listed in the schedule?
 What type of decoding algorithm is GBS and what does it do?
What are the days and times for Laboratory IV: Molecular Spectroscopy and Dynamics B section?
 What is the intent classification accuracy (%) for MuST-C En-De in Table 6?
What is FERPA?
What services does Carnegie Mellon University offer for graduate students?
What is the location of Persuasive Design class?
What are the days and times when the 'Production Prep: Macbeth: Sound Design' class is held?
What is the name of the course taught by Sleator on Mondays from 9:00 AM to 9:50 AM?
 What type of models are evaluated in the study mentioned in the text?
What is the URL for ordering transcripts at Carnegie Mellon University?
Which player's high school is located in Austin, Texas?
What are University Policies on Grades and Grading according to the handbook?
What is the name of the award given to recognize research excellence at Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science?
What city does the text mention?
Where can one find more information about student and affiliate ID cards?
What is the minimum number of units of coursework required from CMU for MS students?
When and where is the Documentary Theater class held?
Who led the development of Mach kernel?
Which sections cover policies related to student leaves and withdrawals at CMU?
What does it mean when events are marked in bold in the Home section?
Who won the softball game between Emory and Carnegie Mellon on Fri, Apr/21?
Who teaches the 'Development Financial Tools for Sustainable Economic Development' course at 3:00 PM on Tuesday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
When is the Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence for Engineers: Lec class held?
What is the purpose of Appendix A mentioned in section 1.3?
What is the name of the cross-registration program offered by Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the Student-Athlete Advisory Council (SAAC)?
What kind of support does A.2.4.1 offer for English language learning?
When and where does Segal teach History of Modern Architecture?
What is the role of a graduate student's department or program in determining if early degree completion is allowed?
Who should a student contact if they have questions about the accommodation process?
Where is Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania located?
Where will both panel discussions take place?
 What is the difference between standard decoding and Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding?
What is the course name for the class offered on Wednesday at 11:30 AM in PCA 231?
How is the Graduate Student Assembly funded?
What are the days and times of Caton B's Actor Dance II class?
Who is Carolyn Penstein Rosé?
 Who are the authors of the paper?
What are the days of the week when some courses are held?
What is GSA's role in bringing graduate students from different departments together?
What is the course code for Directed Study?
What instrument does Shields teach at Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
What is the location of the course 'Geographic Information Systems 12.0 A TBA TBA Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Kurland B TR 09:30AM 10:50AM TEP 1308 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania'?
What is the purpose of the handbook for LTI PhD students?
What is Alexander Hauptmann's office location?
What was Dr. Clarke's role in Formal Methods in Systems Design?
When is the course 'Piano Pedagogy I' held?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
 Who are the authors of the paper on Denoispeech?
What is the course title of Architecture 48519?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Regulation of Internet Edge Platforms?
What is the course name for 05684?
What is the classroom location for section Lec 2 of Introduction to Machine Learning for Engineers?
What is the hometown of Daniel Kong?
What is the purpose of the 'Student Accounts Receivable and Collection Policy and Procedures'?
What are the names of the professors teaching Physics Sophomore Colloquium I?
 Where is wind power projected to show a large decrease in the eastern United States during 2040-2049 under the SSP2-4.5 scenario?
What is the topic of French Cinema?
What is the topic of the lecture that starts at 11:00AM on Monday and Wednesday?
Who are the target audience for the Research on Equity and Sustained Participation in Engineering, Computing & Technology Conference RESPECT?
 How do some recent studies extract useful features as subgoals?
What are the days and times when Score Reading for Composition Majors and Conducting Minors is held?
Where does the Introduction to Life Design take place and what are its timings?
What is the email address of Dhruv Arya?
Are fee waivers available for this program?
How many types of faculty are mentioned in the text?
 What does the joint model achieve in terms of performance compared to task-specific models?
What are the options for students in course work who anticipate their birth during a semester?
 What is the range of utterance duration in the dataset?
What are the names of the instruments being played in each event?
 How many teams participated in Task 2?
What is the location of Instructor TBA 57138 who teaches Elective Studio (Euphonium)?
What are the names of the professors teaching Tepper PhD: TBA D TBA DNM DNM, Tepper PhD: TBA F TBA DNM DNM, and Tepper PhD: TBA G TBA DNM DNM?
Who is the head coach of Softball at Andrew University?
Who is teaching Production Prep:Penelope: Dramaturgy B?
 How does the proposed context-aware approach in the text differ from existing work?
What does Language Support in the Student Academic Success Center do?
What are the course codes for Pedercini B and Levin's classes?
How can people share the announcement of the Athletics Hall of Fame classes?
What is the significance of Nobel Prize winners' articles in this archive?
Are there any exceptions to the rule that prohibits pass/fail grades in degree-satisfying courses?
What is the course code for Prototyping Algorithmic Experiences?
 Give an example of a task that has benefited from incorporating phonetic word embeddings.
What is the name of the page where students can find information about candidatures for this program?
What is the name of the fitness class that takes place on MWF from 10:00AM to 10:50AM at CUC FITNES in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the course codes for 'Performance for Composers', taught by Whipple and Galbraith?
What is the name of the course taught by Instructor TBA X?
What happens if a student drops too many courses in the MSAII program?
 What is the motivation behind concatenating the query vector with the passage entity matrix?
 Does the dataset unfairly advantage or disadvantage a particular social group?
Who is teaching the course 'Lighting Production'?
What are the issues that Carnegie Mellon University prohibits according to their Sexual Misconduct Policy?
 Where was inﬂuenza D virus first detected?
When will the Dual Degree Ph.D. scholarships start in the 2024/2025 academic year?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
 What does the proposed CtxSimFit demonstrate according to the text?
What are the different types of faculty mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the instructors for Beginning Swimming A4?
Does ORIC assist with export controls in research?
What are the days and times of Brown's class related to production preparation for A Little Night Music?
What is the name of the instructor teaching the course with code 03741 in the text?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Designing Human Centered Software classes at Carnegie Mellon University?
 How often do level-1 voice chains co-occur with speech problems?
What are the course codes for Carter's Advanced Fabrication classes and Wei's Scenic Fabrication and Installation class?
What are the days and times for Systems: Project Planning?
What event did Sam Adida present his research at?
What are the requirements to receive continued academic stipend funding during a Short-Term Maternity Accommodation or Formal Leave of Absence?
 What modification of the InPars recipe was developed in the paper about unsupervised training of efficient rankers?
Who are the authors of this paper?
Where can a student find complete financial aid information for Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the three different times for 'Want to be a Mother: Lighting'?
What was the time of the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Emory?
How many Tartans were named to the UAA Presidents Council Scholar-Athlete Team?
 Why is further research needed for E2E modeling, according to the text?
What are the days and times when each course is offered?
What is the purpose of the cool-down area in Carnegie Mellon University's swimming and diving pool?
Where is Matter and Interactions I being taught?
What is the course code for Studies in Latin American Literature and Culture: Del Son al Reggaeton: Chronicling Countercultural Latin American Soundscapes?
 How many ESMs participated in CovidMIP for this study?
What is the name of the teacher who teaches at 10:00 AM on Tuesday in room DH 2302?
Where is the LTI located?
Where are the instructors listed in this text located?
What are the locations of the classes mentioned in the text?
What are the dates and times of Small Group Study in HCI 0-36?
What are the three classes offered for Scenic Design?
What is the title of Liginlal's course that starts with 'B'?
What is the course code for Introduction to Critical Writing?
What is the duration of study expected from MIIS-21 students enrolled for part-time study?
 What role do shifts between cut-in and ramp-up wind speeds play in governing future wind power changes?
What does 'QPA' stand for in the context of this text?
What is the policy on double-dipping in MCDS program?
What are the names of the professors teaching Microeconomics III, Macroeconomics II: 6.0, Macroeconomics III, Econometrics III: 6.0, and Information Economics?
Who leads the Division of Student Affairs in Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name for Qian's class?
Where and when does Yao's first course take place?
What is the name of the class that has a schedule on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 06:30 PM to 10:30 PM and Tuesday from 08:00 AM to 11:00 PM?
 What is the main focus of the proposed method in the text?
Who are the authors of the text 'Research in Psychology - Mini VAR A4' and what is its topic?
Where and when will the Introduction to Deep Learning course be held?
What is the course code for Language Diversity & Cultural Identity?
What are the days and times of Lizama's classes in DH 2122?
What are the names of the people involved in each event's costume production?
What is the name of the course taught by Schepkin BB?
What are the class timings and location of 'Tissue Engineering'?
How can students get involved in undergraduate research and honors thesis at the university's School of Computer Science?
 How does the model attempt to prompt the synthesis of clean speech in the presence of background noise?
What is the name of the class taught by Rosenberg Munoz at 9:30 AM on Tuesday and Thursday in MM 215?
What is the name of the section that provides additional resources for students?
What is the policy regarding late graduation at CMU?
What does the abbreviation 'TBA' stand for in this text?
What are the course codes and their respective days/times for Pennsylvania Scheller-Wolf 70374 Data Mining & Business Analytics?
What is the course code for Structure of Japanese Language?
What was the first computer program that could develop proofs for theorems in much the same way a human would work?
When does the event at 57930 take place?
What is the location of each individual music studies studio mentioned in the text?
What is the name of class L that meets on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What are the course codes for Differential and Integral Calculus and Concepts of Mathematics?
What is the course code for Dunigan's class 'Undergraduate Research'?
What is the course code of Physics I for Engineering Students?
What is the name of the course offered by Professor Gheorghiciuc in BH 237B?
When does the course 'Directing B' take place?
What is the English Fluency requirement for teaching assistants at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the course name and number for class G F 11:00AM 12:20PM?
 What were the different values of K tried for the retrieval-based prompting experiment?
What are the names of the instructors for the second and third classes mentioned in the text?
 Which sector showed larger differences in environmental concern?
What are the course codes and instructors for Intermediate French II offered at different times?
What is the date and time of the softball game between WashU and Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course name for Alleruzzo's Global Business courses?
In which instrument does Pukinskis specialize in teaching at Advanced Music Studies Studio?
 What does Figure 4 demonstrate regarding the improvement in output quality with iterations?
What are the days and times of Kantor's class?
Where is Dance III: Expand Dynamic of Dance Technique offered?
What is the name and location of the course taught by Douglas, Rissinger at DNM Pittsburgh?
How many sections are there in the Financial Support section?
What services does Computing Services develop and maintain at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the days and times of the classes 'Beginning Piano Practicum I', 'Vocal Pedagogy II', and 'Sprezzatura: career skills in language II'?
What are the course codes and titles for Mercier's courses in Software Management Independent Study?
Where are the classes of Physics II for Biological Sciences & Chemistry Students and Introduction to Astronomy held?
Who should students consult with regarding gestational accommodations?
What are the course codes for Special Topics: Visual Computing Systems and Independent Study in the Computer Sciences?
Why are Berliner's papers still around according to Schaeffer?
 Why is the TPMS algorithm chosen as a baseline for comparison with more advanced algorithms?
Does Carnegie Mellon University offer doctoral programs in computer science? If so, how many?
When and where are the classes 'Basic Design 1', 'Production Science', and 'Production Practicum: TBA C' held?
 What is the focus of the study mentioned in the text regarding bias detection?
What are the three sections of chapter 4?
What is the location of the school mentioned in the text?
Who is the instructor for Naval Science - ROTC?
What is the deadline for early applications?
Can graduate students elect to take courses on a pass/fail basis for their degree requirements?
What are the names and subjects of Khan's two classes?
What are the names of the two rooms where classes will be held in this schedule that start at 6:30 PM?
 What architecture is used by WavLabLM in the pre-training settings?
Who is teaching Project III, which takes place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:00 AM to 11:50 AM in PTC MPR?
What is the name of Haden's course in Culture Class?
What are the names of the courses taught by Dunigan E and Fischhoff F?
Who should international students consult if they are considering completing their degree requirements early or moving from an undergraduate to a graduate student classification?
 How many GPUs and CPUs were used in the experiments?
Who are the instructors for Graduate Vocal Coaching?
Does the School of Computer Science offer spring admission?
 What distinguishes Genetic Improvement from other tools like linters for Android app performance improvement?
What is the title of their current position at MIT?
What is the location of each course?
Where is the Study Abroad program located?
What is the purpose of the Visiting Students Program at this institution?
What is the course title for Manke-Miller's teaching assistantship?
What is the course code for Music & Money?
What are the names of the courses being offered in this schedule that start with 'User-Centered'?
What are the class times and locations for Comiskey D3?
On which date did the Roanoke Invitational Challenge take place?
What kind of facilities are available at Athletic/Fitness Facilities?
 What is the name of the assessment procedure overview study in reconstructive hand transplantation by Kumnig, M., Jowsey, and others?
 What is the main dataset used in the experiment mentioned in the text?
How can I get GRE or TOEFL codes for my application?
Does Carnegie Mellon University have social media accounts?
When does Wells F teach Elementary German I and II at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the course code for Special Topics: Atmospheric Nanoparticles and Climate?
Who is teaching 'Acting For Directors II' and when does it take place?
How many undergraduate students were there at SCS in fall 2013?
 What STFT settings are used in the implementation?
Where are the two locations mentioned at the end of the text?
 What were the characteristics of the participants in the high AGR tertile compared to the low and middle tertiles?
Where does the course 'Build Your Own Breadboard Computer' take place?
What are the course names and their respective days/times in Financial Computing I?
 In which figure can we find the mean Pearson and its interquartile range for the ZH-EN data?
Who is the captain of the Tartan Women's Basketball team?
 What is the focus of factuality detection in natural language processing?
What are the course names for all three classes?
What is the role of NCAA in Carnegie Mellon University's diversity and inclusion policy?
What are the time slots for Raponi's course 'Music Education Performance Lecture/Recital: Studio B'?
 How does the Im2Sp model incorporate language modeling capability?
What are the names of the three Production Preparation courses mentioned in the text?
Who is PDEEC designed for?
What is the name of the course taught by Si A?
When did Carnegie Mellon play their fourteenth game?
At what time does Spacagna AD's class start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the statistics about fires in residence facilities according to the report?
What kind of diagnostic procedures does University Health Services cover?
 What data source was Whisper pre-trained on?
 How do the RL models in the study differ from the base LLaVA model?
Who is B. Trotter at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who is teaching Piano Performance II?
What are the course codes for the courses offered on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 11:00 AM to 12:20 PM?
What is the purpose of elective courses in School of Computer Science?
What are the names of the courses that start at 06:30PM, 01:00PM, and 02:00PM on Tuesdays?
What does 'Share' mean in the context of this text?
What types of programs does the Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion support specifically?
What is the date of the article?
 What are some tasks investigated in large-scale datasets for adverse visual conditions?
What instrument does Goeres study at Shields, Thompson's Advanced Music Studies Studio (Individual)?
 How does the system allow for a flexible processing of data?
 What is the correlation coefficient for the temporal variation in BC column concentration over the globe?
What type of activities are typically most likely to be awarded to students in Carnegie Mellon’s research-oriented degree programs?
Why is having the attitude of 'I'm going to keep moving and stake out new territory intellectually' important according to Rashid?
What are the topics covered in the Design Studies: Power class?
What are the two requirements for students pursuing a Ph.D. in Language Technology at SCS according to the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What instrument does Caballero teach at the Advanced Music Studies Studio (Orchestral) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the name of the course that takes place F in room DNM with Shields as one of its instructors?
What are the normal expectations for full-time students enrolled in MCDS?
What does Rashid look for in a researcher?
Who can access the LTI's computer cluster and why?
Can you use the information from this calendar to plan your schedule?
How many credits does the Professional Internship course have?
 What did the study findings suggest about the association between AGR and OS when AGR was larger than 1.24?
When does Coding & Control for Theatrical Sound take place?
What is the page number where you can find information about financial support for student parents?
What are the requirements for students to choose an area of concentration in MCDS curriculum?
What is the name of the course taught by Xu W at UMTWR 08:45AM - 09:35AM in Doha, Qatar?
What are the names of the professors teaching at 9:30 AM to 10:50 AM on Tuesday and Thursday in room B23 211?
Who founded the Department of Computer Science at Carnegie-Mellon University?
What laws guarantee the right for qualified individuals to receive reasonable accommodations?
What type of feed does the text mention?
What is the name of the course that starts at 01:30 PM in New York, New York?
Who are the instructors for Seminar on History of Philosophy: Smith and Hume?
What are the course codes for Studies in Chinese Literature: The Enchanting World of Chinese Ghost Tales & Ctr and Advanced Research in French & Francophone Language & Culture?
 What is the final approach discussed for detecting machine-generated text?
What are the names of all three classes mentioned?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Personalized Online Learning?
What is the name of the event where Carnegie Mellon's women's track and field team competes?
 What kind of speech do recent Text-to-Speech (TTS) systems trained on reading or acted corpora achieve near human-level naturalness?
Who teaches Advanced Formal Methods?
What are the three locations mentioned in this text?
In which room does Reis teach Software Foundations of Security and Privacy?
 How is the secondary transfer length calculated in the text?
What was the field that Herbert A. Simon is considered a founder of?
When is Biomedical Engineering Seminar held and where is it located?
 Why did the researchers switch from sampling from a top-100 set to a top-1000 set during inference?
What is the name of the course that starts at 11:00 AM and ends at 12:20 PM on Monday, Wednesday?
Who teaches Software and Security class?
 How is the first term in Eq. (1) made differentiable?
What is the purpose of conforming to School of Computer Science (SCS) policies and university policies?
Which course is taught by Kats at 07:00PM on Tuesdays and Thursdays?
What time does Water Resources Systems Engineering A start in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What happens when a waiver is granted for specific courses?
Who are the instructors for Speech Technology for Conversational AI?
Who teaches the course titled 'Special Topics in ICT: No/low-code For Electronic Business'?
Where is Rashid Auditorium located?
Who is Shackleford and what are his/her scheduled events?
Who has an Andrew id and a CS id?
What is CMU Alert?
What are the academic policies for MLT students at Carnegie Mellon University?
 What issue can be caused by a too small ϵ value?
 What does the acronym PV stand for in the context of the text?
Are there any teaching requirements for students in the MCDS degree program?
What is the course code for 'Special Topics: Energy Innovation and Entrepreneurship' taught by Christin?
What is the name of the event where Men's Tennis competed?
What are the two types of breaks mentioned in this section?
What is the purpose of the Health Services website?
What is the role of the Career Center at CMU?
What was the result of the NCAA Indoor Championships on Sat, Mar/11?
What is the purpose of Health Services' workshops?
When and where does the Internship in Clinical Psychology take place?
What is the name of each class held on Monday, Wednesday, Friday from 6:30 PM to 10:30 PM?
What are the names of the classes that Stewart is taking?
What are the names of the classes that meet on Tuesday and Thursday from 5:00 PM to 6:20 PM?
When listing my programs on the application, how will this order affect my admission to each program?
How can students begin the interactive accommodation process for receiving reasonable accommodations at Carnegie Mellon University?
Where are the courses taught at Doha, Qatar?
What is the purpose of the 'Back to top' section?
 What is discussed in §6 of the text?
When are the classes of Business Administration 45701 held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is depicted in Figure 4?
What are the course codes for classes that start at 01:00PM on Monday and Friday respectively?
What are the instructors for Independent Study 80495?
What are the names of the instructors for Learning through Cultural Practices and Community A and B?
 What do the fault currents concentrate in, according to the text?
Who are the people involved in the Carnegie scenic activities mentioned in this text?
What is the guidance regarding integrated degree completion?
What page number does the LTI PhD Graduate Student Handbook appear on?
Who are the instructors for User-Centered Research and Evaluation classes?
Who are the instructors mentioned in this text?
 What does the increase in PM2.5/CO ratio during the pollution event indicate?
Where is Independent Teaching Experience held?
What is the name of the course that teaches ADDvocate?
When will I be notified if I am admitted to a program?
What is the course code for Topics in Formal Epistemology: Topological Philosophy of Science?
When and where is the 'Econometrics for Policy' class held?
What are the days, times, and location where Dobson teaches 'Special Topics in Societal Computing: Understanding Cyber Teams'?
 Why might AGR levels below 1.24 not exhibit a significant independent association with OS?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Statistical Decision Making courses?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses taught by Wong-Noonan in CMB at Doha, Qatar Affara?
What does the acronym 'VAR' stand for in this context?
What is the maximum age of a valid GRE score when applying to the MCDS program?
 In Level-5 of the fetch object task, what descriptive words related to specific property categories were included in the command?
 What syndrome is caused by disruption of the PHF21A gene?
What is the policy on Master's Student Statute of Limitations?
What are the days/times for Chen F's classes?
What was the name of the first commercially available workstation that featured a graphical user interface?
What are the class times for Lightman's section of Measuring Social?
Who is Instructor TBA and what time does he/she have a class?
 What is the significance of the Prognostic Value of serum albumin to globulin ratio in patients with Cancer Cachexia study?
How many search results were found for the given query according to the message on the page?
Which school played against Carnegie Mellon in Women's Tennis on Sat, Apr/06?
What are the days, times, and locations of all MCS First-Year Seminar 38100?
What is the course code for Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Development?
 What is the importance of limiting the training size in speech SSL works?
 What is the conclusion drawn regarding the proposed method and the dc fault clearing time?
What are the names of the two teachers teaching Band and Choral Arranging and Instrumental/Choral Conducting classes respectively?
Who is the instructor for Independent Study in Music Entrepreneurship?
What are the names of the two courses taught by Raponi?
Which component in CTAT allows you to create an HTML student interface?
Which courses are offered by the Philosophy department with a time slot of Monday, Wednesday, Friday (09:30AM-10:50AM)?
What are the names of the courses taught by Conover in the given text?
What is this document about?
When and where does Estrada's Elementary Spanish II class take place?
What is the location of the music studies studio for Violin EB?
 What is the abbreviation for the model by Singh et al. in 2021?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses listed in the text?
What is the minimum level required for a course to be considered an approved qualifying course?
 In Table 2, what do the basic statistics of the COBRACORPUS illustrate?
What are the breadth courses in Human Language?
What did Amir Pnueli introduce in 1977?
Who decides whether a new course should be added to an LTI Focus Area?
How many players are on the 2023 Tartan Volleyball Roster?
Who is the Professor starting in January 2024?
 How does the number of [IMG] tokens (r) affect image generation in GILL?
In what room does 'PH A18B' teach their class?
Where is the location of Independent Study 1-24 in this text?
What kind of funding is available to students who are not part of a research project?
What are the time slots for Garrod and Blelloch's classes at WEH 6403?
Who teaches Introduction to Mathematical Finance at 04:00PM on Tuesday and Thursday?
What are the days and times of Kohlbrenner's classes?
What is the deadline for using a late course drop voucher in each semester?
What are the days and times of the courses offered by Instructor Oddo?
What is the course code for 'Current Topics In Privacy Seminar'?
Where is the second class, Software Engineering for AI-Enabled Systems held?
What is the course code for Bourne's course and what are its days and times?
 What did the burgers and sausages in the text taste like?
When is 'Harmony I' course held and who teaches it?
What disciplines do faculty and students at Carnegie Mellon University's School of Computer Science come from?
When does Stephenson B1 teach 'Accounting and Finance Analytics'?
 What does the combination spBLEU200/cost represent in the text?
How is academic integrity expected to be maintained in a challenging academic environment?
Who are the staff members at Language Technologies Institute?
What is the location of Gomez Laich's class?
What is the course 'Negotiation 6.0 A1 TR 11:00AM 12:20PM HBH 1005 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Moya B2 TR 11:00AM 12:20PM HBH 1006 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Moya C1 TR 02:00PM 03:20PM HBH 1006 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Moya D2 TR 02:00PM 03:20PM HBH 1006 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Moya E2 M 06:30PM 09:20PM HBH 2009 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Ciccone 94801 Acting for Management 6.0 A1 MW 03:30PM 04:50PM HBH 2008 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Murphy B2 MW 03:30PM 04:50PM HBH 2009 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Murphy C2 MW 02:00PM 03:20PM HBH 2009 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Murphy' about?
What is the course name for Riviere's class that meets from TBA to DNM on Tuesday and Thursday in room A308?
What are the course codes and titles for the courses offered on Monday at 12:30 PM?
 Why is the use of FFN expert sub-layer found to be sub-optimal for different reasoning skills?
Who teaches ICT Entrepreneurship Seminar at CMR F203 in Kigali, Rwanda?
What is the course name for Dynamics?
 What synthetic test set is used for the final evaluation of the models?
 What is the topmost element in the is-a hierarchy called?
 What capabilities are hypothesized to be lacking in current LLMs according to the text?
What is the name of the instructor for the Special Topics in Music: Advanced Skills in English Diction class?
What event was scheduled for February 25 at 6:00 P.M., according to the composite calendar?
What should be done if there is a violation of this statement?
When and where does Garofalo's class take place?
 How is the final segment-level score calculated in the annotation process?
 What trend did the differences in distributions show with increases in the degree of impairment?
Where is the location of M DNM's doctoral dissertation at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches the course 'Special Topics in Circuits: Board-Level RF Systems for the Internet-of-Things'?
What are the course credits for Research Issues in Game Development: Designing for XR?
 How did LLaVA synthesize visual instruction data?
What did Shafi and Goldreich show about the approximation problem?
When and where is Foundations of Programming Languages A held?
 What is the main focus of the Ph.D. dissertation by Chi from the University of Science and Technology of China in 2018?
What is the name of the course offered by Bedillion at POS 146?
What happens if you fail to abide by these rules in the university?
What are the days and times of Tepper PhD Internship class?
 What dataset was used to train GPT-3.5?
What are the names of the courses offered by Dunn at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How many hours does it take for the FC Compress. model with VGG-19 Params. to train?
What is the name of the course taught by Lee in Computational Perception?
 What is the goal of Dynamic-SUPERB in relation to speech models?
What are the grounds for dismissal from the program according to the MCDS committee?
 What is the primary reason for the slow inference in traditional autoregressive decoding?
When and where does the MA Seminar I: Design Minds course take place at Carnegie Mellon University?
When was the Softball game between Brandeis and Carnegie Mellon held?
What is nanostructured material, and how does it relate to surface engineering?
What is the role of the MIIS program director in assisting students?
Who threatened to resign several times during his tenure as department head according to Reddy?
What are the locations for Production Prep: SOM 3 and Media L?
What is the course title and instructor of the Watchdog Journalism offered by Instructor Twedt?
Where is the physical location of Language Technologies Institute?
 How was a stress equation for the prestressed steel wire strands established?
Where does Decision Science Capstone take place?
 What do existing benchmarks often compromise according to Table 4?
Who should students contact if they have concerns about compliance with this policy?
What kind of plans must students engaged in research develop when they are away due to pregnancy?
What is the title of the class that starts at 4:00 PM on Wednesday in room TEP 2119?
 What is the title of the paper mentioned in the text?
What does the term 'unit of the School of Computer Science' refer to?
What is the name of the course that George is taking?
What are the names of the courses offered in Production Management?
 What percentage of the time were the contextualized values generated by GPT-4 deemed high-quality by human annotators?
What does 'TR' stand for in this schedule entry?
 What method is used to select a collection of representations that maximize the coverage of the latent space explored in Novelty-guided Exploration Based on Nodes?
Who teaches Speech I (54104) on Tuesday at 10:30 AM?
 What dataset is used for intent classification accuracy in Table 6?
What was the date of the women's tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Kenyon?
Who is the instructor for the Production Management course?
What are the names of the instructors for Environmental Chemistry Laboratory?
 How do discrete speech units represent speech signals, as described in the text?
 What tasks were evaluated in the SUPERB benchmark?
What is the name of the person who teaches 'Cabaret'?
What is the name of the course that starts at 2:00 PM and ends at 3:50 PM on Monday?
What are the course names, instructors, and time slots for the courses offered at 07:00 PM on Tuesday?
How many courses are included in each example schedule for completing the MIIS program?
Where are Cornetti, Gruber, Spacagna and Teadt performing their senior recital?
What is the course title and instructor for Global Studies Guided Reading: The Environment and Climate Change?
What are the two main categories of services provided in section 7?
Which player from the 2023 Tartan Volleyball Roster is from Belmont, Massachusetts?
What should students do if they realize that one of the situations mentioned applies to them?
What is the instructor for Production Prep: Lighting Design with Mr. Burns?
What is the name of the book mentioned in the text?
 What does Table 9 summarize?
What is the name of the course that has 0.0 credits according to the text?
 What was identified as an independent risk factor for intrahepatic recurrence in patients without peritumoral HBP hypointensity?
What is the course code for Applied Quantitative Social Science I?
What is the Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and what does it have to do with Cross-registration?
 What does Table 3 display in relation to T5-self performance?
 Where can you refer to for the correlation scores of non-contextual evaluation metrics with human judgments for each task?
What were some topics discussed on the online bulletin boards at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the three production preparation courses being offered in this schedule?
What is the location of Ramakrishnan's independent study in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What kind of accommodations does the Student Academic Success Center provide for students with disabilities?
What is the purpose of Academic Coaching at the Academic Success Center?
What is the name of the course being offered by Twedt?
What opportunities does being part of the MCDS program offer?
What is the title of the course that starts at 6:30 PM and ends at 10:30 PM on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday?
When did Men's Tennis play against Allegheny?
How many key offices are there for health, wellness & safety according to the number provided?
What is the name of the course that starts at 06:20PM?
How many years of crime statistics are included in the annual campus security and fire safety report?
What are the names and locations of Crary's courses?
 How much higher is the BC column concentration of MERRA-2 compared to GRASP/Component BC retrieval over the NEI region throughout the year?
 What does the de-compression method DC do in the communication process?
Who teaches 'Topics in French and Francophone Studies: Topics in Arabic Studies'?
 How many volatile chemical components were identified in Schisandra branch exudates and dried fruits?
How many students are required to apply for CPT at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the names of the courses offered in the morning on Wednesday?
 What is a commonly reported phenomenon in LLM research regarding model performance?
What is the English Proficiency Requirement for students studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa at the School of Computer Science?
What is the purpose of The WORD at Carnegie Mellon University?
When and where is the 'Progress Reviews III' course held?
What is the location of Computing Services at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the instructor at H in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
According to section 3.3, what are the course requirements and related policies/protocols for MCDS degree certification?
Who should the student discuss his/her situation with if they require late graduation?
What are the two different time slots for Ozis D R in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 How is the overall error rate estimated in the text?
Who is the Director of Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation?
 Why does the text suggest that FOXP2 pathways are likely to have a bearing on speech anomalies?
What is the name of the course that teaches Quantitative Methods for Policy Analysis?
What was the final score of the game between #24 Carnegie Mellon and Allegheny?
What is the maximum number of courses for which a student can receive transfer credit?
What are GSA representatives composed of?
 How is the discriminativeness of the method being evaluated quantified?
What is the date of the men's tennis match between Mary Washington and Carnegie Mellon?
What is the course code for Undergraduate Internship?
What is the purpose of this website according to its menu bar?
What services does the University Police Department offer for crime prevention and education programming?
How many subscribers does TartanAthletics have on their YouTube channel?
What is the course code and title of the class that starts at a time to be determined?
Who is teaching the course 'Vocal Pedagogy II'?
What is the Carnegie Mellon Portugal Program?
 Which initiative funded by the National Institutes of Health is mentioned in the text as a measure development system?
 What is the learning rate scheduler used during fine-tuning stage?
How can you contact Alexander Hauptmann?
How can students identify their library liaison in their field?
 When did neural models define the state of the art for MT?
What is the title of the course being offered in room HH C102 at 9 AM?
Where is the Graduate Reading and Research class held?
What skills do Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow program aim to teach?
What is the total number of pages mentioned in the text?
What is the deadline for making changes to an online application submitted for most programs at the School of Computer Science?
What is the purpose of the Athletics Office in Carnegie Mellon?
 What did the researchers do to ensure the apps would build before testing and measuring?
What are the names of the classes taught by Collier?
When and where is ECE Design Experience taught, and who teaches it?
What is the course name and instructor for the course offered on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 10:00 AM?
What are the locations and times of Yu's classes?
 In the automatic vs. human evaluation analysis, how is ALBEF accuracy related to human retrieval accuracy?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's stance on LGBTQIA+ individuals?
Who teaches Maker Series: Prototyping for Equity?
What is the course name for W 05:00PM-06:20PM time slot?
What is Rick Rashid's philosophy towards research and product development?
 What is the goal of multihop QA?
What is the state space explosion?
 How does the best performance vary between Mixer 6 and DiPCo in terms of GSS result?
Who are the instructors for Major Studio (Composition) 9.0 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the consequences of violating the rules and regulations mentioned in this handbook?
When does Farag, Qu teach Applied Information Assurance at CIC 1201 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
 What is the purpose of measuring ranking agreement between sgnLP and rrLP?
What are the course codes and their respective instructors for Advanced Introduction to Machine Learning, Graduate Reading and Research, Materials Science & Engineering 27050 Study Abroad?
What is the role of Instructor TBA BA?
What is the name of the instructor who teaches the 'Prototyping Stories: Experimental Children's Book and Vis Dev as Architecture' course that starts at 10:30 AM on Wednesdays off-campus in room OFF CAMPUS?
What is the name of the first EPP Projects course?
When is Military Strategy and Doctrine class held?
Where is the Information Desk located?
What are the days and times of Production Prep: External Projects: Dramatic Writing?
What is the purpose of the University Center?
 How are candidate next partial captions obtained at each step of decoding?
How many pages does this webpage have?
What does 'QPA' stand for?
What is the name of the course offered by Instructor TBA 57615?
 How is the approach of the study evaluated?
What is the course code for MAAD Research by Design Project?
 What strategies are used for slot-based question formulation?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered at POS 146 on Wednesday afternoon?
Who should report any violation of this statement?
 What is the difference between speech-to-text (ST) and speech-to-speech (S2ST) translation tasks?
What are the names of the people teaching the 'Proposal Creation Stage & Production Management' and 'Technical Direction' monographs?
 How is the `monotonic` function defined in the text?
What are the locations and times of the three Business Leadership Endeavor III classes mentioned in the text?
Who is Vania Instructor TBA 80992?
Where was the match against Concordia Wisconsin held during the Spring Break in Orlando, Fla.?
 What is the cost estimate in USD$ for the 5-shot model?
Who teaches Concerto: Virtuosity and Contrast at 11:00 AM on Monday, Wednesday?
What is the course's time slot for each course at thematics 2.0?
 What is the main limitation of the previously proposed BWBS scheme for SST systems?
What is the title of the course taught by Cervas in PH 226B at 12:30 PM?
 What was the main focus of the study mentioned in the text?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses starting with 'P'?
What are the names of the students mentioned in the text?
What are the class times for Lighting Production J?
Where does the 'Data Science for Psychology & Neuroscience' course take place?
Is Community Engagement Performance a test or not according to the schedule provided?
What is the purpose of Student Information Online (SIO)?
How many countries are represented by international students at Carnegie Mellon?
Who is the instructor of Tech Startup Launchpad in Doha, Qatar?
What is the course code for Environmental Systems on a Changing Planet?
What is the name of the internship that students are required to complete during their studies?
What is the title and credits of course P?
What is a handbook in graduate school?
 How many dimensions are evaluated in the dialogue system at the turn-level?
What are the four ways to share content according to the given options?
 How does FLARE perform compared to single-time and multi-time retrieval baselines?
 What was the accuracy of the simplified calculation method of the secondary transfer length?
 Where do we find a higher temporal stability of daily and yearly solar PV outputs under the SSP2-4.5 scenario?
When and where does Financial Computing III take place?
Will I be considered for financial support if I am admitted into a Ph.D. program?
What are the names of the two professors teaching Special Topics in Integrated Systems Technology?
What are the two course components required for students who elect to complete the M.S. Thesis?
Who are the instructors for each course?
 What optimizer is used for training S2UT models?
What are the main categories listed on the menu bar?
What is the total number of instructors mentioned in this text?
What is the title of the Google Tech Talk mentioned in the text?
 What is the purpose of tuning the weights of reranking metrics on the Clotho validation split?
What are the three courses being offered in this schedule?
What are the timings for 'Photographers and Photography Since World War II'?
 What is the model discussed in Figure 13 and what components does it consist of?
What are the names and days/times of all classes in the text?
Who are the speakers at Seminar IV: Capstone Project Research?
In what field did Sylvania Erol make significant contributions?
 What was the effect of the model on empathy across all three dimensions?
What does 'cross-registration' mean in this context?
 How do TDT models in Speech Intent Classification tasks compare to conventional Transducers?
What are the course codes for Changes in Japan 1: Food and Work Cultures and Structure of Japanese Language?
What is the title of Garrand's course?
What is the URL of the Shuttle & Escort Service website?
How many sections of Graduate Independent Study 3-24 are there?
Why was Nico Habermann unhappy with budgeting for the Computer Science Department?
In which room is Fantastic Robots and How to Fold Them held?
What is the difference in unit requirement between the Standard MIIS degree and the MIIS: Advanced Study degree?
Where are the elective studios for violin, viola, cello, double bass, guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, and bassoon located?
Where and when is the Remote class held?
Which team did #24 Carnegie Mellon play against in the game mentioned on Sat, Nov/18?
Who are the instructors for Topics in Formal Epistemology and Senior Thesis 3-18?
What are some advantages and disadvantages of using Twitter to share information?
Who teaches IDeATe Portal: Introduction to Media Synthesis and Analysis?
What is the phone number of the institute mentioned in the text?
Who are the authors who have Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation program?
Where can I find information about domestic partner registration?
What is the name of the instructor for the events listed as 57940 and 57948?
Who was the opponent for the second game that the team won against during the UAA Round Robin #2?
Who is the instructor for 'Preserving History with Blockchain Technology' seminar?
How many business days do you have to complete Form I-9 after beginning work for any type of compensation?
What is the topic of the course taught by Meese and Grese?
What is the role of Kemal Oflazer at Language Technologies Institute?
When does Literature and Repertoire: Brass start?
Where is the music studies studio for Cello GA located?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
Where is the Production Prep class for VAR Directing held?
 How many DEGs were involved in the high-CTL group based on gene set enrichment analysis?
When and where will Kim's Foundations: Critical Studies class take place?
What is the policy of Carnegie Mellon University regarding Employment Eligibility Verification?
Where is Music History I class held at 12:30 PM on Mondays and Wednesdays?
Who teaches 'Using Spanish in Social Contexts'?
What is the page number mentioned for 'Withdrawal of a Degree' topic?
What is the Scottish terrier wearing around its neck according to the text?
What are the page numbers mentioned in the given text?
What are the benefits of using Cognitive Tutor Authoring Tools (CTAT)?
 How is the latency of the system defined in the text?
 What does the performance improvement of LLM versus Pronouns highlight?
What are the names of the instructors listed under each number for the second part of the text?
 How does the FastEmit regularization method scale the gradients?
What was the time of the Softball game between Carnegie Mellon and Mount Union?
How many initiatives are there under Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI)?
What is the course code for Cognitive Neuropsychology: Social?
Where was the YSU Icebreaker held?
What is the name of the course taught by Collins?
What kind of assistance do library liaisons provide?
What do the seminars in the SMART program show varsity student-athletes how to deal with?
When are the classes held at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Saturdays?
What are the days and times of Gongora-Svartzman's courses?
When was the annual Learfield Directors’ Cup standings announced?
Who won the softball game between Case Western Reserve and Carnegie Mellon on Fri, Apr/14?
What is the phone number for the University Police Department?
 Who conducted the study on psychosocial outcomes after bilateral hand transplantation?
What is an Affiliate ID Card and who can get it?
What does 'holistic approach' mean in the context of the sports medicine team?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Solution Strategy & Marketing course?
How does the author present their argument in this text?
What are the names of all courses that start between 6:30 PM and 7:50 PM?
How many courses are required for the program?
 Which function is used for acquisition in the acquisition function based on uncertainty?
What are the course names and their respective credit hours for the courses offered in the given text?
What is the role of library liaisons, consultants, and information specialists at the University Libraries?
Who chaired a committee sponsored by DARPA to investigate the feasibility of beginning a large-scale, five-year project on 'speech understanding' in 1970?
What are some opportunities provided by Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow (TLT) program?
Who scored the winning three pointer for Tartans on Senior Day against Emory?
What services does Carnegie Mellon University offer for transportation?
What is the name of the instructor for the Major Studio (Piano) class?
What is the name of the course that teaches about 'Fundamentals of Improv Comedy'?
What is the name of the costume production class?
What is covered under section 4.1 of the MCDS academic policies?
 What method does the text propose to perform retrieval directly using the next sentence as the query?
What are the two time slots for 'Lighting Design'?
What year was the video scoreboard installed at Gesling Stadium?
Which player's hometown is in Florida?
What should a student do if they want to transfer out of the MLT program?
What are the course codes for English 76221 and English 76245?
Who teaches Spatial Computing Design?
What is the URL of CMU's University Libraries?
What is the requirement for a conference paper or report to satisfy the writing proficiency requirement?
What is the name of the course taught by Cervesato and Kohlbrenner in Lec 1?
When and where is Production Prep: A Doll's House: Production Management held?
What is the course name for MWF 10:00AM - 10:50AM?
What are the days and times for Professor Branstetter's course '88323 Policy in a Global Economy'?
What are the dates, times, locations, and instructors of all classes listed in this text?
What are the three courses in Statistical Decision Making?
What are the days and times of the courses listed in the schedule?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the names of the instructors for each session in the given schedule?
What are the days and times of Severnini's courses offered by Caulkins?
What is the course code for Independent Study in Literary and Cultural Studies?
Which option is not a way to share content?
What is the location of Movement and Dance III?
What happens during an academic probation period?
What services does Computing Services provide for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members and staff members?
Where can students find information about academic policies and resources in The WORD?
Who represents Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology program among the authors?
Is it permitted to bring pets into Gesling Stadium?
What is the duration of study at MIIS?
What is the course code for Optimization?
What is the course code for 'Introduction to Printed Circuit Boards Fabrication'?
What is the location of the Directing IV class?
What is the course name and credit hours of the 10:00AM - 11:50AM class?
 Describe the layout of the ground floor of Lakewood.
What are the days and times when 'Introduction to Ecological Design Thinking' is offered?
What kind of assistance does the Student Academic Success team provide for creating peer-led study groups?
What was the result of the team's fourth match against Chatham?
 Who are the authors of the paper on tokenization impacts in multilingual language modeling?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-12 for Instructor TBA 90964 and Instructor TBA 90975?
What does '1.7 University Policies and Expectations' refer to according to this text?
What is the duration of the class in hours?
When is 'Practicum in Information Systems' held at DNM on Wednesday?
What should students do if they find themselves struggling in the program?
What is the email address of Murphy Austin?
What are the days and times of Cody W's Production Prep class?
 What decoder was used for the end-to-end system in the text?
Who are the instructors for each course offered in this schedule?
What are the course codes for Sculpture II and Black and White Photography I?
What are the dates and times of the classes listed in the text?
Which course starts at 05:00PM and ends at 06:20PM?
When was the Men's Tennis match between Carnegie Mellon and Mary Washington held?
What page of the MLT Graduate Student Handbook discusses university policies and expectations?
 What models represent the upper bound of how good a speaker’s listener model can be?
In what city does Reilly teach a course on The Arts in Qatar?
What is the School of Computer Science's policy regarding reviewers and fee waiver requests?
What is the name of the person who will be teaching video and media design?
 Which months show higher BC column concentration in MERRA-2 compared to GRASP/Component BC retrieval?
When and where does the first class take place?
What is the title of the course that starts at 09:30 AM and ends at 10:50 AM?
 What is the utility of using post-correction in the transcription pipeline?
What is the location of Murthy B's Physics Sophomore Colloquium II class?
What are the names of all speakers listed in this schedule?
What are the course codes and instructors for the courses offered on Wednesday at 9:30 AM in room BH 150?
Who taught Independent Study: Breadth 1-48?
Who are the teachers listed in this text?
 What is the formula of compound C127913?
What is the instrument taught in Major Studio (Tuba) at DNM?
Where is the location of S1 and S2 in the text?
What is the course name for section E taught by Cervesato and Kaynar in Flushing?
Is it mandatory for students to maintain full-time enrollment status in their final semester?
 What is the critical value of rapid fracture cycles when the thickness reaches 10 mm?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-36?
What are the names of the speakers and their classes?
What is the purpose of the LTI Ph.D. Graduate Student Handbook?
What is the URL of the website where eligible students can find information about registering their domestic partner?
 How has single-channel speech enhancement improved in the last decade according to the text?
What are the course codes and titles of the courses offered by Gongora-Svartzman?
Who is the instructor named C at Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the course names for 21355 and 21366?
What should students do after they have completed the information form for Maternity Accommodations?
What are the days and times of the A course?
 Who conducted the interpretation of images in the study?
What city does Instructor TBA I teach in?
What is the name of the annual conference for minoritized scientists?
Where is the location of the Athletics Office at Carnegie Mellon?
What are the three internship opportunities for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD students mentioned in the text?
What is the purpose of Production Prep in the schedule?
In what room is Scenic Fabrication and Installation held?
Where can I find a complete breakdown of the MCDS program and its policies?
What is the name of the magazine mentioned in the text?
What is the course code for 'Foy Career & Professional Development for Engineering Masters Students'?
Where is the Office of International Education (OIE) located?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Solfege?
What are the three units offered in the course 'Stagecraft: Video & Media'?
What is the name of the piece composed by Wu D?
What are the dates and times of the Computing @ Carnegie Mellon events?
What is the location of the last meeting between Erdmann and Kaynar in this text?
Where is the Help Center located for Master’s students in the School of Computer Science?
Where and when is the 'Privacy and Security' seminar held?
What are the positions of the instructors at this school?
How does print differ from Twitter when it comes to sharing information?
 Who introduced the Speech processing Universal PERformance Benchmark (SUPERB)?
Who are the instructors listed in this text?
What are the names of the courses taught by Rao and Steier in this schedule?
What is the duration of the MCDS program?
Where can you find the contact information for Language Technologies Institute?
Who teaches Professional Communication for Economists (course code 73270)?
What is the significance of the links provided at the end of this text?
What are the course codes for Freeman's classes?
What are the names of the 'Production Prep' courses for each course mentioned?
What is the course code for Experimental & Sensing Systems Design and Computation for Infrastructure Systems: R 02:00PM 03:20PM PH 107E?
What is the purpose of Gesling Stadium during the fall season?
When and where is Stagecraft: Costumes (3 units) taught?
Where was the Automated Science Internship held?
Who is Daphne Ippolito?
 What caused a decline in performance of all policies in the study?
When did they participate in NCAA Div. III Region 4 Diving Championships?
What is the course title of First Year Seminar: Architecture Edition I?
What is the name of Ozdoganlar's class at 2:00 PM?
What is the course taught by Faulkner in Doha, Qatar?
What is the location of Allen, Evans, Branson T?
Where can I find a list of hotels near CMU Pittsburgh campus?
What does LTI stand for in the context of this text?
What happens when the time-to-degree limit has lapsed?
 What is the significance of low probability/confidence in Language Models according to the text?
 Why is the objectness constraint proposed for unsupervised domain adaptation considered agnostic to ground-truth semantic labels?
What happens to a student's ID card when they separate from the university?
What are the class times and locations for Beginning Golf A3's Racquetball course?
When will the quarterfinals of the UAA Championship take place?
 What is the R2X (1) value obtained from processing the volatile chemical components using PCA?
Are international students required by US Federal law to maintain full-time status?
What time does the Women's Tennis match against Concordia (Tx.) start on Wednesday, March 6?
What are the days and times for Yasuhara's classes in Japanese Film and Literature: The Art of Storytelling?
What are the course codes of the two classes held in PCA 305 on Monday, Wednesday and Friday?
What is the location of Comprehensive Review (Analysis Paper) 1.0 taught by Instructor?
What is the title of the first-year seminar that focuses on Appalachia?
Who serves as the advisor when a student does not have a specific advisor?
Why did Berliner find himself pigeonholed?
What is the course title for the lecture held on Wednesday at 02:00PM-03:50PM?
What is the name of Gomez's IDeATe class?
What are the days and times when Readings takes place?
What are the course names for classes A4 on Tuesday from 6:30 PM to 9:20 PM and Thursday from 6:30 PM to 9:20 PM?
What are the names and instructors for the courses offered on Friday?
Who teaches Graduate Reading and Research in Computer Science?
Who is the instructor for 'Special Topics in Sound Design'?
What is the location of this text?
 What algorithm is used to construct a vocabulary of 4000 tokens in the text?
What are the names of all classes taught by Belanger?
What is the name of the course taught by Shea on Wednesdays?
What happens when a student completes graduate courses at another institution?
How can students avoid cheating in their academic work?
 What is the purpose of Prompt2Model discussed in the text?
Which students are eligible for these appeal and grievance procedures?
What is the name of the course that starts at 12:00 PM on Friday in room DH 1112?
What are the names of the two New Product Management classes mentioned in the text?
Who is the target audience of this website?
Where is the event 'Opera Coaching' held?
 How does RL1 evaluation aim to address limitations in existing metrics like expected reciprocal rank and average precision?
What are the consequences if students do not make normal progress towards their degree in a standard timeframe?
What is the name of the course taught by Mahler Washington at 10:00 AM on Wednesdays?
What is the duration of Independent Study 1-12 in Zhang?
What is the course code for Principles of Microeconomics with Pretnar?
How can I register for Cèilidh events?
What are the course codes for Special Topics in Applied Physics: Artificial Cognitive Systems and Control of Grid-Connected Machines & Converters?
When does Applied Linear Models (course code 36617) meet?
What is the name of the course taught by Blando B in WEH 5304?
How long will it take to construct the new Highmark Center for Health, Wellness and Athletics?
 What is the mechanism that has been argued to be critical to language learning where individuals infer the mental states of other agents in social environments?
What is the name of the instructor for Independent Study in Performance?
What are the types of women's empowerment programs offered at Carnegie Mellon University?
What is the name of the class that meets on Tuesday evenings at 7:00 PM at Wean Hall?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered by Simmons?
What is the name of the sixth course mentioned in the text?
What is included in the common MCDS core?
What are the names of Cervesato and Kohlbrenner's classes?
What is the location of the 2:00 PM class on Friday?
In what city, at what time, and which room does the lecture 'EX-CHANGE: Exhibition & Publication in Practice' start?
 What did the majority of transcribers in the user study prefer in terms of task setup?
What are the topics covered in 'Introduction to Mosaics'?
Where was Carnegie Mellon playing softball against Emory?
How can students apply for a MD/Ph.D. in Computational Biology?
What is the location of Societal Computing Graduate Reading and Research?
 What type of pool is suggested for ICL example selection by Vilar et al. (2022)?
Who was the performer for the second piece in the Major Studio (Viola) category?
What is the purpose of creating an environment for Asians, Desis, and Pacific Islanders?
What is the course code for Elementary French I offered by Hoogstaden in Pittsburgh?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What is the URL for the Student Health Services Web site at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many credit hours does each course have?
What is the significance of Carnegie Mellon University's mission statement?
What is the name of the course being taught by Shi at TEP 2612 on Friday, 2:00-3:20 PM?
 Why is argmax decoding rarely used in practice?
When and where is Advanced Reaction Kinetics held?
 What kind of objects does the Open-Vocabulary Mobile Manipulation task involve interacting with?
When and where is the course 'Physical Mechanics I' held?
When and where does the course 'Presentations for Option Pricing' taught by Kuchibhotla take place on M4 day?
Where is the Language Technologies Institute located?
What are the days and times of Chai's Introduction to Machine Learning (Master's) course?
Who utilized Wikipedia embeddings released by Cohere AI and placed them in the Pinecone vector database?
What is the purpose of cross-registration?
Who teaches Stretch Techniques?
 What augmentation techniques were applied to the acoustic inputs?
At what time and location is Burns' dissertation research on Second Language Acquisition taking place?
What is the name of Sokalski's 12.0 A TBA class?
What were the results of the three tennis matches mentioned in the text?
Where and when is the Penn State Last Chance meet?
What is the event that will take place on Thursday at 1:00 PM EDT?
What are the three classes being offered in this schedule?
What are the names of the courses offered in Persuasive Design and Human AI Interaction?
What are the two courses being advertised in this text?
What are the class times for Dangerous Ideas in Science and Society (80101) Lecture on Monday and Wednesday at 1:00 PM?
What is the title of the eco-drama that will be held in WEH at 5:30 PM?
What are the names of the two courses that start at 10:00 AM in Doha, Qatar?
What is the name of the institution where Societal Computing Pre-Thesis A and B took place?
What office offers a robust schedule of professional development opportunities for graduate students at Carnegie Mellon?
 How does the weight entanglement strategy in GLoRA help in increasing the search space?
 What is the purpose of asking workers to select the image best described by the description?
What type of training was held at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania according to the text?
How often are rehearsals during the concert season?
 What are Large Language Models (LLMs) primarily trained on?
What are the days and times of Introduction to Repertoire and Listening for Musicians class?
What is the name of the course that starts at 09:00 AM on Friday in room CFA 102?
When and where will the Machine Learning with Graphs course be held?
When does the second class start and what are its location, course name, and instructor?
What are the names of the two acting classes listed in this schedule that start at 11:00 AM?
Who is Carol J. Smith and what is her role in CMU?
 What is the purpose of using different numbers of evaluating instances across scenarios in the Pentathlon experiments?
Who are the people involved in the production preparation activities mentioned in this text?
Who teaches the 'Principles of Education' course on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 PM to 9:50 PM in room HOA 225?
What are the course codes and titles of all courses offered on Monday at 9:30 AM in room HBH 1206?
What are the names of some research projects conducted at the Language Technologies Institute?
 What corpora are included in the MT training data?
What is the title of the course taught by Yeh?
What is Carnegie Mellon University's policy regarding transgender students participating in intercollegiate athletics?
What is the course code for each student's independent study?
 What did the best-evolved change in Tower Collector consist of?
 In which settings does DIFUSCO achieve state-of-the-art performance among other neural NPC solvers?
 How do respondents propose to address the issue of model comparability?
What is the process for changing or missing grades according to the text?
Which office is responsible for providing assistance to individuals with disabilities?
What are the courses offered on Monday and Wednesday at 02:00 PM?
What was the innovation by CMU researchers in 1973?
What is the topic of Moritz's course?
What is the title of the first chamber ensemble mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the cities where these people live?
 What is highlighted as an excellent opportunity to increase the machine translation performance of Guarani–Spanish languages?
 What is the impact of intermediate-task fine-tuning on AV-HuBERT?
What time does the event 'Mozisek S 08:30AM 06:00PM CMU REMOTE Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania U' start?
 What is the main advantage of large language models (LLMs) in natural-language-to-code generation (NL→Code)?
When is Undergraduate Research held?
What is the name of the course that takes place on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM?
Can MIIS students take more than sixty (60) units per semester without permission from the program director?
What are the course names, instructors, and credit hours of Gomez's class?
What are the names of all the classes that Touretzky, Harper, and Reis are teaching?
What is the location of Carver 57207 Music Studio 3-9 A in this text?
What is the course name, instructor, and credit hours for the class held on Tuesday at 12:00 PM?
Can a student take undergraduate courses for credit?
 How does prior familiarity with Kwak’wala affect transcription time?
 What is the role of the duration predictor in the FastSpeech2 model?
 Why does Instructor-XL perform poorly compared to GPT-3.5?
Where does Sanford teach from in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What are the names of the people listed in this text?
Where and when does 'Shakespeare: Comedies and Romances' take place?
What is the course code for Microelectronic Circuits: 18310?
What is the time limit on doctoral candidacy status according to university policy?
Who are the instructors for the Percussion Studio Performance Class?
What is Justine Cassell's research area?
What is the name of the class held by Garrod and Blelloch at GHC 4401 on MWF from 09:30AM to 10:50AM?
Who is TBA in 'Voting Rights in the United States'?
 What was tuned for the six-microphone case to address the permutation problem?
What is the academic program of Anuva Agarwal?
What is the topic of the class taught by Crary?
 How did wind speed and wind direction correlate with PM2.5 concentration and RH during persistent southerly winds?
Who founded the Robotics Institute?
What are the names of the instructors for each independent study?
 What is the Robust04 collection known for?
What are the potential applications of advances in core NLP technology according to Graham Neubig's research?
 What statistical aspect is used to build confidence intervals for the difference in performance between the TPMS algorithm and more advanced algorithms?
How many courses are listed in the text?
Where is Crosscultural Psychology held?
 In retrieval-augmented Cross-Attention, what is retrieved from the kNN index for each cross-attention head?
 What is the main advantage of using vectorization during beam search in RNN-T and attention-based models?
 How many models were trained for each GAN architecture?
What position does Connor Warren play?
 What distinguishes ESPnet-ST-v2 from other open source spoken language translation toolkits?
What is the location of Patton's E-Textiles class?
What are the names of the instructors at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
What is the status of course registration according to section 4.1?
 What are two methods used to distinguish between text that looks like Wikipedia and books?
What services does University Health Services (UHS) provide?
What is the course code for Drama 54011?
What is the name of the course taught by Professor Mehalik in class HBH 1004?
What is the course title of Chin's Contemporary American Foreign Policy?
Who teaches the cultural policy & advocacy in the US course listed in the schedule?
 What specific strategy related to indirectness is important in the tutoring domain?
What does oSTEM stand for?
Who are the instructors for the Engineering Research Project course?
What is the event listed in Schepkin AB?
 How is the performance measured in terms of evaluating the models?
What resources does the university offer for family and dependents?
 Why is aesthetic satisfaction a central concern for many UE transplant patients?
What is the name of the program described in this handbook?
What is the name of the production being prepared in this schedule?
How can students get general information or ask questions to The HUB?
What is the course code and class time for Fables, Legends and Stories from Ancient Chinese Civilization?
 What is the proposed learning objective in the speech enhancement models?
What is the course code for 79201 Introduction to Anthropology?
 What is the main focus of the paper in terms of distinguishing between text?
 How does an increasing stress ratio affect the stress intensity factor?
What are the names of the instructors teaching Programming Usable Interfaces?
 What type of model architecture is Jais based on?
Why was Hoare's method difficult to apply to larger computer systems?
What is the course title and instructor(s) for Run Date: 26-feb-2024?
Who are the instructors for Music and Technology Project (57572) and Junior Recital Voice 1.0 (A2)?
What is the name of the city where Demirkoparan teaches Mathematical Concepts and Proofs?
What is the name of the course taught by Kelley at 1:00 PM on Wednesdays?
Where and when does Principles of Microeconomics with Pretnar take place?
What are the dates and times of the classes for 'Sender: Scenic Design'?
 In future work, what type of devices does the text mention extending the PAR framework to?
What is the course code for Algebraic Topology?
 What is the main focus of the proposed model architecture?
What is the research area of Teruko Mitamura?
 Why is it important to tune the filter length as mentioned in the text?
What is the policy regarding dismissal from the graduate program for a first violation?
What is the email address of Venny Ayudiani?
 What type of neural architectures are employed by sequential recommendation systems?
What is the name of the instructor for Artist Diploma Studio 3-36 A TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Artist Diploma Recital 0.0 A4 TBA DNM DNM Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania?
Who teaches Creative Nonfiction Workshop?
 Which institutions are involved in the research project mentioned in the text?
What are the names of the people listed under each letter for the second part of the text?
What resources does the University Libraries provide to support graduate students in their research?
What is the university's vision?
 According to the results, what method is the most effective for expanding textual representations?
Who provides professional assistance and advice on all-things information at the University Libraries?
What is the course name, instructor, and credits for Elementary Arabic 1?
Where was the event held?
 What is the objective of the user in the first example provided?
 What does the code distance measure between two sets of integers?
 How can the framework described in the text be extended?
