Carnegie Mellon University School of Computer Science

Skip to Main Content

Search

Toggle Visibility of Menu

Education Education Overview of Programs Education Course Listings Education Executive Education Education Online Graduate Certificate Undergraduate Education Programs Education Concentrations Education Admissions Education General Education Requirements Education Policies and Procedures Education Undergraduate Research and Honors Thesis Education Dean's List Master's Education Programs Education Admissions Doctoral Education Overview Education Programs Education Admissions Education For International Students Education Student Awards Education Faculty Awards

Research Research Research at SCS Research Selected Publications Research Student Research Opportunities Research Faculty Awards Research The Allen Newell Award for Research Excellence

News & Events News & Events SCS News News & Events Updates & Alerts News & Events The Link Magazine News & Events Media Kit and Press Contacts News & Events Events Calendar News & Events SCS Seminar Series News & Events SCS Distinguished Lecture Series

About SCS About SCS Directions, Maps & Parking About SCS Tour Policy About SCS Key Contacts About SCS Directory About SCS Alumni Engagement About SCS Giving About SCS Outreach About SCS Diversity, Equity and Inclusion About SCS Faculty Hiring About SCS Employment at SCS About SCS SCS Career Center About SCS About the Dean

Partnerships

Departments Departments Ray and Stephanie Lane Computational Biology Department Departments Computer Science Department Departments Human-Computer Interaction Institute Departments Language Technologies Institute Departments Machine Learning Department Departments Robotics Institute Departments Software and Societal Systems Department Departments Dean's Business Office Departments Alumni Engagement Departments Careers Office Departments Computing Facilities (Help Desk) Departments SCS Building Facilities

Give

SCS Graduate Admissions Overview

SCS Graduate Admissions Overview

Thank you for your interest in graduate studies at Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science! We offer a wide range of professional and academic Ph.D. and master's programs across our seven departments. Admissions and requirements vary by program and are determined by the program's home department. You can apply to up to three of our Ph.D. programs and any of our master’s programs.

Important Information for Programs Beginning in Fall 2024

Application Opens: Sept. 6, 2023 Application Deadline: All applicant materials must be submitted by the deadline below, and application fees must be paid by these deadlines. Early Deadline: Nov. 29, 2023 (3 p.m. EST) Final Deadline: Dec. 13, 2023 (3 p.m. EST) If you submit your application early, your recommenders still have until Dec. 13, 2023, to submit recommendations. TOEFL, IELTS & GRE Deadlines: If you need to take/retake your TOEFL, IELTS and/or GRE for this application, we highly recommend you take the exam no later than Nov. 29, 2023. Reportable scores can take two weeks to process, and we may not be able to review any scores that arrive after our Dec. 13, 2023, deadline. If you will be studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa, and English is not a native language for you (native language…meaning spoken at home and from birth), an official copy of an English proficiency score report is required. The English proficiency requirement cannot be waived for any reason. Find more information under "Test Scores" on our FAQ page. GRE & TOEFL Codes GRE Report Codes: Institution Code - 2074, Department Code - 0402 TOEFL Report Codes: Institution Code - 4256, Department Code - 78

Note: Some of our programs follow different deadlines, see application information and links below for more information.

Helpful Links

Graduate Admissions Overview

Application Instructions

Frequently Asked Questions

Master's Programs

Doctoral Programs

Program Leadership

SCS Graduate Admission Applications

Use the links below to apply to the program(s) of your choice.

SCS Doctoral Programs

Ph.D. Application for Computational Biology, Computer Science, Human-Computer Interaction, Machine Learning, Societal Computing, Software Engineering and Robotics

Ph.D. Application for Language and Information Technologies

Note : To apply to the doctoral track in Algorithms, Combinatorics and Optimization (ACO) or in Pure and Applied Logic (PAL) , you must apply to the Ph.D. program in Computer Science . You should state in the first paragraph of your Statement of Purpose that you are interested in either ACO or PAL. If admitted, you will be allowed to choose that program during your first year.

Master's Programs in Computational Biology

Master of Science in Automated Science: Biological Experimentation Application

Master of Science in Computational Biology Application

Master's Programs in Computer Science

Master of Science in Computer Science Application

Master's Programs in Human-Computer Interaction

Master of Human-Computer Interaction Application

Master of Human-Computer Interaction Application

Note: MHCI has a deadline of Jan. 10, 2023 at 12 p.m. EST.

Master of Educational Technology and Applied Learning Science Application

Master of Science in Product Management Application

Note : MSPM has rolling admission for spring.

Master's Programs in Software and Societal Systems

Master of Software Engineering Application

Master of Software Engineering - Embedded Systems Application

Master of Software Engineering - Scalable Systems Application

Note : The three programs above — MSE, MSE-ES, and MSE-SS — are not following any early deadlines and the application fee is $100.

Master of Science in Information Technology - Privacy Engineering Application

Master of Software Engineering Online Application

Note : MSE Online follows a different deadline schedule.

Master of Information Technology Strategy Application

Note : The MITS

application for fall 2023 opens Oct. 15, 2022 and closes Jan. 15, 2023.

Master's Programs in Language Technologies

Master of Computational Data Science Application

Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Application

Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems Application

Master of Science in Language Technologies Application

Master's Programs in Machine Learning

Master of Science in Machine Learning Application

Master's Programs in Robotics

Master of Science in Computer Vision Application

Master of Science in Robotics Application

Master of Robotic Systems Development Application

Programs With Joint/Multiple Applications

Machine Learning Joint Ph.D.: S tudents interested in an ML-Joint Ph.D. should first apply to the Ph.D. program that best aligns with their research interests. Once you are enrolled in one of the participating Ph.D. programs and have passed 10-715, 10-705 and 10-716, there is a lightweight application to apply for a joint Ph.D. in machine learning.

MD/Ph.D. in Computational Biology : Students must apply via the Medical Scientist Training Program . More information is available on the Medical Scientist Training Program website .

Interdisciplinary Programs in the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition: Students should apply to their primary SCS Ph.D. program but must also apply to the CNBC Graduate Training Program . More information can be found on the CNBC website .



5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA 15213

Legal Info |

Contact Us

Facebook

Twitter

LinkedIn

Instagram

RSS feed

Qatar Campus

Silicon Valley Campus