Carnegie Mellon University Athletics Diversity and Inclusion Statement

Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate in admission, employment, or administration of its programs or activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, handicap or disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Furthermore, Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate and is required not to discriminate in violation of federal, state, or local laws or executive orders.

As members of the NCAA and the Carnegie Mellon University community, we believe that all people should be treated equally. We look to establish and maintain an inclusive culture that fosters equitable participation for student-athletes, coaches and administrators from diverse backgrounds and varied life experiences. We believe that diversity and inclusion improves the learning environment for all student-athletes, and enhances excellence within that learning environment.

Carnegie Mellon University and the NCAA understand that LGBTQIA+ student-athletes, coaches, and administrators too often endure particular social stigma and emotional trauma on the court, in the classroom, and in the workplace, which serves as a barrier to fair and equitable competitive and learning environments. At Carnegie Mellon and within our athletics department, we take tremendous pride in the support of all lesbian, gay, bisexual, queer and questioning, intersex, asexual and other non-heterosexual (LGBTQIA+) individuals.

Furthermore, the Carnegie Mellon Athletics Department unequivocally supports the opportunity for transgender students to participate in intercollegiate athletics in accordance with the NCAA process for participation. Carnegie Mellon aspires to provide an inclusive and welcoming environment for individuals involved in any and all of its programs.

Any such violation of this statement should be reported to the Director of Athletics and/or the Office of the Dean of Students.

Share

Facebook

Twitter

Email

Print