Radioactive Robot: The Machines That Cleaned Up Three Mile Island

Robots cleaned up what humans could not because of radioactive contamination after the worst nuclear accident in the nation's history 30 years ago



Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Share on Reddit

Share on LinkedIn

Share via Email

Print

Slideshow

(9) images

View

Radioactive Robot: The Machines That Cleaned Up Three Mile Island

Share



WORKHORSE: "Red" Whittaker sits atop Workhorse in a picture from the 1980s, surrounded by the team that helped build it. Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon University

REDBOT: The CoreSampler was the second of three robots built by a team of students led by "Red" Whittaker to help with the TMI sweep up; it carried a column of drills that allowed engineers to take samples from the walls of the reactor's basement to test for radioactive contamination... Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon University

RAD ROVER: In a photo from the 1980s Whittaker sits in a control room with the Rover, or Remote Reconnaissance Vehicle, a robot he built with students that carried lights and cameras and provided engineers with the first video images of Three Mile Island's contaminated basement after the nation's worst nuke accident there on March 28, 1979... Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon University

NUKE BUSTER: Whittaker grasps a mechanical claw, or manipulator, on Workhorse, a robot built to tear apart concrete structures and clean surfaces, among other things. © Scientific American / Daniel Lovering

Advertisement

GLOWING CLEAN: Whittaker explains the features of Workhorse, which has system redundancy and was designed to be internally pressurized to force out possible radioactive contamination that might get caught between parts... © Scientific American / Daniel Lovering

SCRUB ROBOT SCRUBBED: Whittaker discusses building Workhorse, which was constructed to help scrub up and remove debris from TMI but was never used. © Scientific American / Daniel Lovering

RED HEAD: "Red" Whittaker, a world-renowned robot designer, describes the features of the Workhorse, a robot he built with students as part of an effort to clean up damaged Unit 2 at the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant... © Scientific American / Daniel Lovering

ROBOT RELIEF: William "Red" Whittaker, a robotics professor at Carnegie Mellon University, stands outside the university's National Robotics Engineering Center in Pittsburgh. Whittaker assembled a team of students in the 1980s to build three robots designed to help clean up the basement of a damaged reactor at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant... © Scientific American / Daniel Lovering

Advertisement

THREE MILE ISLAND: One of the two nuclear reactors at this facility in 1979 suffered a partial meltdown and released radioactivity into the atmosphere—the worst nuclear power accident in U.S. .. Courtesy of NRC

Previous

Next

of

View all

Link copied!



















Newsletter

Get smart. Sign up for our email newsletter.

Sign Up

Support Science Journalism

Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners.

Subscribe Now!