Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Academics

Research

Partnership

News

Events

DEI

LTI Intranet

Contact Us

Careers

Apply

Academics

Research

Partnership

People

Search form

Apply to LTI

LTI MLT/PhD Information Session RSVP

The LTI is holding an information and Q&A session for MLT and PhD applicants on Wednesday, Nov 8, 2023 from 12 noon – 1 pm (Eastern Time - New York). This will be an informal session. Faculty and students will be present to answer any questions about the upcoming applications.If you would like to attend, please pre-register here . A Zoom link will be shared with registered attendees shortly before the event.Please note that your personal information (name, email, affiliation, program of interest) will not be shared with the faculty or admissions committee.

For more information, please contact Jamie Callan (PhD Program Director), Bob Frederking (MLT Program Director) or Shaily Bhatt (PhD student).

How To Apply

Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science has a centralized online application process . The application deadline for the fall 2024 application cycle is December 13, 2023 at 3:00 p.m. EST. Incomplete applications will not be considered. We've provided an overview for you below, but you can find more information on the School of Computer Science's master's admissions and doctoral admissions pages.

Final Application Deadline

December 13, 2023 at 3:00 p.m. EST

Cost

The cost is $100 per program, $80 for applications received before Wednesday, November 29, 2023 at 3:00 p.m. EST (early deadline) .

Fee Waivers

Fee waivers may be available in cases of financial hardship, or for participants in select "pipeline" programs. For more information, please refer to the School of Computer Science Fee Waiver page .

LTI PhD/MLT Graduate Application Support Program

LTI PhD/MLT Graduate Application Support Program

This application support program aims to ensure that applicants to research graduate programs at LTI have someone to provide feedback on their application before submission. Historically, people from underrepresented backgrounds have lacked access to guidance from people familiar with the higher degree application process. In order to take steps towards an equitable application process, we invite applicants to the MLT and PhD programs to visit

This application support program aims to ensure that applicants to research graduate programs at LTI have someone to provide feedback on their application before submission. Historically, people from underrepresented backgrounds have lacked access to guidance from people familiar with the higher degree application process. In order to take steps towards an equitable application process, we invite applicants to the MLT and PhD programs to visit

this page for application support through the School of Computer Science.

Requirements

The School of Computer Science requires the following for all Ph.D. applications.

GREs are now optional, but if you want to submit GRE scores: These must be less than five years old. The GRE Subject Test is not required, but is recommended. Our Institution Code is 2074; Department Code is 0402.

If you will be studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa, and English is not a native language for you (native language…meaning spoken at home and from birth), an official copy of an English proficiency score report is required. The English proficiency requirement cannot be waived for any reason. Find more information under "Test Scores" on our FAQ page.

Successful applicants will have a minimum TOEFL score of 100. Our Institution Code is 4256; the Department Code is 78.

Official transcripts from each university you have attended, regardless of whether you received your degree there.

Current resume.

Statement of Purpose.

Three letters of recommendation.

In addition to the SCS guidelines, the LTI requires:

A short (1-3 minute) video of yourself. Please see individual program admissions pages for details.

Any outside funding you are receiving must be accompanied by an official award letter.

No incomplete applications will be eligible for consideration.

Contact Us Language Technologies Institute

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-6591

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout