Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Learn

Collaborate

Connect

Who We Are

News

For Current Students

LTI Home

Contact Us

Apply

Connect With Us

Learn With Us

Collaborate With Us

Give

Search form

Apply to the MCDS Program

How To Apply

The School of Computer Science has a centralized online application process for graduate admissions. Applications for the MCDS program will open on September 6, 2023.

All supporting documentation for fall admission must be received by the final application deadline of Wednesday, December 13, 2023. Incomplete applications will not be considered.

To apply, go to the SCS online application .

In order to compare MCDS to other professional masters programs at CMU please refer here:

https://www.cs.cmu.edu/sites/default/files/SCS_Masters_Programs_in_Brief...

Important Deadlines

Early Deadline: Wednesday, November 29, 2023 (3pm EST)

Final Deadline: Wednesday, December 13, 2023 (3pm EST)

Costs

By the early deadline: $80 per program, By final deadline: $100 per program.

Requirements

Requirements

Students should report raw university GPA scores and NOT converted scores. Please DO NOT convert your international score to a US GPA or weighted GPA or other system.

GRE scores are required. GRE scores are waived for applicants who have graduated from, or are enrolled at, Carnegie Mellon. GRE scores will NOT be accepted if they are more than five years old. Our Institution Code is 2074; Department Code is 0402. More information is available on the program website .

The GRE At Home test is accepted but we prefer you take the GRE at a test center if possible.

Proof of English Language Proficiency: If you will be studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa, and English is not a native language for you (native language…meaning spoken at home and from birth), we are required to formally evaluate your English proficiency. We require applicants who will be studying on an F-1 or J-1 visa, and for whom English is not a native language, to demonstrate English proficiency via one of these standardized tests: TOEFL (preferred), IELTS, or Duolingo. We discourage the use of the "TOEFL ITP Plus for China," since speaking is not scored. We do not issue waivers for non-native speakers of English. In particular, we do not issue waivers based on previous study at a U.S. high school, college, or university. We also do not issue waivers based on previous study at an English-language high school, college, or university outside of the United States. No amount of educational experience in English, regardless of which country it occurred in, will result in a test waiver. Applicants applying to MCDS are required to submit scores from an English proficiency exam taken within the last two years. Scores taken before Sept. 1, 2021, will not be accepted regardless of whether you have previously studied in the U.S.

Successful applicants will have a minimum TOEFL score of 100 (Reading, Listening, Speaking, Writing scores all 25 or above), IELTS score of 7.5 (Reading 7 or above, Listening 7 or above, Speaking 7.5 or above, Writing 6.5 or above), or DuoLingo score of 120 (Literacy 115 or above, Comprehension 125 or above, Production 100 or above, Conversation 105 or above).

Please send scores via ETS using our SCS/CMU codes:

TOEFL Institution Code: 4256

TOEFL Department Code: 78

A successful applicant will normally have a total iBT score of at least 100.

Test Scores: All test scores must be uploaded (as PDF) to your application. If they are NOT uploaded by December 13, you will not have access to upload them and your application may not be considered for review.

A short (1-3 minutes) video of yourself. Tell us about you and why you are interested in the MCDS program. This is not a required part of the application process, but it is STRONGLY suggested.

Official transcripts from each university you have attended, regardless of whether you received your degree there. We do NOT require mailed, hard versions of transcripts at the time of application. Do not mail your transscripts to the admission office. If you are accepted to the program, you will be given instructions to then mail them. All electronic transcripts should be uploaded by the time you submit your application. If they are not uploaded by December 13, you will not have access to upload them and your application may not be considered. **NOTE** Electronic transcripts and test scores are not marked as received until you submit and pay the application fee. It may take several days or weeks to check the uploaded material, so please allow time.

Resume , please submit your current resume, outline your education, research experience, work experience, publication, scholarships, prizes and honors received, society memberships.

Statement of Purpose , prepare a consise one or two page essay that describes your primary areas of interest in research, your related experiences, and your objective in pursuing a graduate degree at Carnegie Mellon

Three letters of recommendation , recommenders should know you relatively well and be able to evaluate the quality of your previous work. At least two should be from faculty or recent employers. With the on-line application, letters will be requested and submitted electronically. Paper recommendations will NOT be accepted. Letters of recommendation are due by December 13. All deadlines are FINAL. Letters received after this date may not be considered in the review of your application.

It is your responsibility to make certain that your application, supporting documents, and letters of recommendation are uploaded to your application by the final deadline. You may check your submitted application to make certain that it is complete.

For more details regarding application, please see the SCS Master's Admissions page . No incomplete applications will be eligible for consideration.

Contact Us Master of Computational Data Science

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-9870

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout