Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Learn

Collaborate

Connect

Who We Are

News

For Current Students

LTI Home

Contact Us

Apply

Connect With Us

Learn With Us

Collaborate With Us

Give

Search form

LTI Launches New Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations

Online program allows professionals to learn foundational skills in computer programming, machine learning, and data science

Read More

Read more about LTI Launches New Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations

Ganju To Receive CMU's Outstanding Recent Alumni Award

MCDS alum previously featured on Forbes '30 Under 30' list

Read More

Read more about Ganju To Receive CMU's Outstanding Recent Alumni Award

MCDS Student to Speak at TEDx Conference

Kunal Khadilkar will discuss colorism and gender bias in the entertainment industry

Read More

Read more about MCDS Student to Speak at TEDx Conference

The Master of Computational Data Science program equips you with the skills and knowledge you need to develop the layers of technology involved in the next generation of massive information system deployments and analyze the data those systems generate.

Learn With Us

Our curriculum provides a unified vision of very large information systems while preparing you for a professional career at leading IT, software services and social media companies.

Collaborate With Us

Education isn't limited to the classroom. You can help us ensure that our students have the real-world training they need to be successful in industry.

Connect With Us

As part of the MCDS program, you'll belong to many communities, at CMU and in Pittsburgh, that offer countless opportunities for growth and engagement.

News

LTI Launches New Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations

The LTI is excited to announce the new Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations program. Beginning in August, 2023, technically-savvy professionals will be able to enroll in this online program and learn to leverage AI and machine learning technology for harnessing the power of large scale data systems. Applications should be submitted by July 15, 2023 for...

Ganju To Receive CMU's Outstanding Recent Alumni Award

Siddha Ganju, a 2016 graduate of the MCDS program, has received an Outstanding Recent Alumni Award from Carnegie Mellon University for her professional success and service to her field.An AI researcher and deep learning architect for autonomous vehicle development and validation at Nvidia, Ganju appeared on the 2019 Forbes 30 Under 30 list and has developed deep learning models for resource...

MCDS Orientation 2021

The orientation for incoming fall 2021 MCDS students will take place on Monday, August 23. To view the schedule of events, please click the link below.MCDS Orientation Schedule

Archive

Contact Us Master of Computational Data Science

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-9870

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout