Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Academics

Research

Partnership

News

Events

DEI

LTI Intranet

Contact Us

Careers

Apply

Academics

Research

Partnership

People

Search form

LTI Student Wins NYC AI Hackathon

PhD Student Ankit Shah's team win for their project "FactGPT"

Read More

Read more about LTI Student Wins NYC AI Hackathon

Fried Awarded 2023 Okawa Research Grant

The LTI's Daniel Fried has received a 2023 Okawa Research Grant to continue his work to model human users of natural language processing systems

Read More

Read more about Fried Awarded 2023 Okawa Research Grant

New LTI Director To Usher in 'Responsible Thinking' at CMU

Mona Diab Has Eyes Set on Changing How To Think About AI

Read More

Read more about New LTI Director To Usher in 'Responsible Thinking' at CMU

The Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon educates the leaders of tomorrow and performs groundbreaking research in the areas of Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, Information Extraction, Summarization & Question Answering, Information Retrieval, Text Mining & Analytics, Knowledge Representation, Reasoning & Acquisition, Language Technologies for Education, Machine Learning, Machine Translation, Multimodal Computing and Interaction, Speech Processing, and Spoken Interfaces & Dialogue Processing.

Learn at LTI

Our unique programs offer the expertise to prepares you for a wide range of careers while staying true to the rigorous curriculum that defines computer science at CMU.

Explore Our Work

LTI faculty and students investigate more than 20 areas of language and information technologies, routinely producing breakthroughs that impact everything from education to healthcare.

Collaborate With Us

Strong partnerships lead to strong results. Whether it's by sponsoring research, developing a capstone project, or joining one of our industry consortia, we want you to work with us to change the world.

The LTI offers five graduate degrees in computer science: the Ph.D. in Language and Information Technology, the research-based Master of Language Technologies, and our three professional master's programs – the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems, the Master of Science in Biotechnology Innovation and Computation, and the Master of Computational Data Science. We're looking for the best students to join us.

Apply Now

Commercial Collaboration

LTI Catalogue

Online repository offers resources for researchers

We recognize that the only way to advance language technologies research is to share our results with other professionals and researchers across the globe. The

We recognize that the only way to advance language technologies research is to share our results with other professionals and researchers across the globe. The

LTI Catalogue contains more than 100 different resources like tools, libraries, web services and data that are available to anyone. We hope that the catalogue will grow and thrive as our research does the same.

Read More

Our Bill of Rights

Get the right information to the right people at the right time in the right language, the right format and the right level of detail.

News

LTI Student Wins NYC AI Hackathon

A team including LTI PhD student Ankit Shah won the top prize this year at the NYC AI GPT Hackathon. The team, which also included computer scientists from New York University, Google DeepMind, Magic Eden and Tupelo, came in first place at April 2023 edition of the event, hosted by Cornell University in New York City.The team’s winning project, named FactGPT, is an automated fact checker for...

Fried Awarded 2023 Okawa Research Grant

Daniel Fried, an assistant professor in Carnegie Mellon University's Language Technologies Institute, has received a 2023 Okawa Research Grant to continue his work of modeling human users of natural language processing systems.Fried was one of seven professors in the U.S. to receive the prestigious grant from the Okawa Foundation for Information and Telecommunications. The...

New LTI Director To Usher in 'Responsible Thinking' at CMU

Mona Diab understands what is at stake.As a research scientist at two of the largest technology companies on the planet, Diab saw the impact innovations had as they spread across the globe. And with artificial intelligence poised to usher in the greatest technological leap since the internet, Diab wants to train, teach and prepare students, researchers, scientists and communities to think...

Archive

The Gates Hillman Complex

The LTI makes its home inside the Hillman Center for Future Generation Technologies. We're right on campus, but an easy walk from great restaurants, coffee shops, museums and libraries.

Visit Us

Contact Us Language Technologies Institute

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-6591

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout