View Static Version

Loading

Carnegie Mellon Athletics Discover what being a Tartan is all about

Carnegie Mellon is a 140-acre urban campus with a residential feel due to our dedicated green space and campus life commitment. We are located just 3 miles east of downtown Pittsburgh and next to the largest public park in Pittsburgh - Schenley Park.

Interactive Map

Interested in visiting campus? You can find the location of our athletics buildings by visiting the interactive campus map.

Facilities

From a picturesque stadium that hosts football games and track and field meets, to a natatorium with natural lighting and the only dedicated soccer facility in the University Athletic Association with the construction of a new performance gym for basketball and volleyball, Carnegie Mellon Athletics boasts some of the premier sports arenas in Division III.

Under Construction - New Health, Wellness and Athletics Center

Includes Performance Gym for volleyball and basketball with multipurpose areas for indoor training for all sports.

Student-Athlete Groups

ADPI Student-Athlete Group

With a student-athlete population of almost 30% Tartans identifying as ADPI, we bring diversity and change to athletics. Carnegie Mellon is a prestigious university where we value individual well-being and community support, and it’s important for all of our student-athletes to feel welcomed and supported by the environment that we create. To provide a safe space for Asians, Desis, and Pacific Islanders, we can come together to support each other’s cultures, improve the issues we face in competition, and celebrate who we are. 2

Black and Latinx Athlete Coalition

A cohesive, centralized affinity group and network of support, camaraderie and mentorship amongst Black and Latinx student-athletes and alumni.

Plaidvocates

The Plaidvocates are a peer health and wellness advocacy program for student-athletes that supports the well-being of CMU’s varsity athletics community.

Student-Athlete Advisory Council (SAAC)

We work to promote the student-athlete voice and engage in community outreach.

Unique Programming

SMART Program

The Sports Medicine Assessment of Risk Tendencies (SMART) Protocol is a proactive, cutting-edge approach to providing varsity student-athletes with services they need to remain healthy and educated about their well-being.

Find out more

Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow

A program in which Carnegie Mellon Student-Athletes evolve as leaders through engaging speakers, thoughtful discussion, campus outreach, engagement and proactive mentorship.

Find out more

Learn More

Learn More

Academic Success

Career and Professional Development Connections

The department of athletics partners with the Career and Professional Development Center for special events that are centered around student-athletes connecting with employers.

For more on the image to the left, connect with the CPDC's Post-Graduation Outcomes page

Pittsburgh

Home to 6 different colleges and universities in a 7-square mile radius from campus

Ranked #9 in Livability.com 2022 ranking of Top 100 Best Places to Live

Ranked #10 in Niche.com ranking of 2022 Best cities for young professionals in America

City dedicated to green space with 1,700 aces of city parks and more trees per square mile than any other U.S. city

90 different unique and vibrant neighborhoods owning distinctive culinary & cultural traditions

Pittsburgh is emerging as a tech and culture hub that The Washington Post praises for its "world-class art museums and colorful neighborhoods."

More About Pittsburgh

2022-23 Success

The Carnegie Mellon University Department of Athletics finished 14th in the 2022-23 Division III Learfield Directors’ Cup standings, as announced by the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA). Carnegie Mellon totaled 777.00 points to record its highest finish in the 28-year history of the Learfield Directors’ Cup, topping 2022's finish of 15th.

visit our website and complete a recruit questionnaire.

Appreciate

Terms of Service

Privacy Policy

Report Abuse

Next

Previous