Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Learn

Collaborate

Connect

People

News

For Current Students

LTI Home

Contact Us

Apply

Carnegie Mellon University Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems

Academics

Partnership

Connect With Us

Give

Search form

Why MIIS?

Learn what makes the MIIS program a unique and world-leading program for professional preparation in the field of language technologies, and how you can apply.

Read More

Read more about Why MIIS?

The Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems is a practice-oriented, professional degree program that offers both advanced study and practical experience in the processing and analysis of unstructured and semi-structured information (such as text, image, video, speech, and audio), mining, and intelligent information technologies. This program is geared towards students who plan to begin or resume leadership careers in industry and government.

Learn With Us

Our curriculum offers students the flexibility to create their own course of study in consultation with their advisor. Just over half the curriculum consists of coursework; the remainder provides hands-on, direct, project-oriented experience working closely with CMU faculty to build systems and solve problems using state-of-the-art algorithms, techniques, tools, and datasets.

Collaborate With Us

Education isn't limited to the classroom. You can help us ensure that our students have the real-world training they need to be successful in industry.

Connect With Us

As part of the MIIS program, you'll belong to many communities, at CMU and in Pittsburgh, that offer countless opportunities for growth and engagement.

News

LTI Students Earn Top Honors in Question-Answering Competition

A team of students from the Language Technologies Institute recently earned top honors for their performance in the BioASQ 2016 Biomedical Semantic Question Answering challenge.Held annually, BioASQ pushes for a solution to the information access problem biomedical experts face by posing challenges on both biomedical semantic indexing and question answering. The CMU team, comprising Zi Yang, a...

LTI Student's System Tops International Field in Live Question-Answering

A Carnegie Mellon system designed to rapidly answer questions — even some seemingly off the wall — posed to the Yahoo! Answers website received the highest score by far in the LiveQA evaluation track at the Text Retrieval Conference (TREC 2015)."This is the question answering that really matters to people," said LTI Professor and MCDS Director Eric Nyberg, who heads the Open Advancement...

Archive

Contact Us Master in Intelligent Information Systems

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-9870

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout