Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Learn

Collaborate

Connect

Who We Are

News

For Current Students

LTI Home

Contact Us

Apply

Carnegie Mellon University Master of Language Technologies

Connect With Us

Learn With Us

Search form

Why MLT?

Learn what makes our program a world-leader in the field of language technologies, and how you can apply.

Read More

Read more about Why MLT?

The Language Technologies Master's program (MLT) is a unique, research-oriented program that prepares students for careers in academia or industry. Part of the Language Technologies Institute, which is a world leader in the areas of speech processing, language processing, information retrieval, machine translation, machine learning, and computational biology, the MLT program immerses students in two full years of research, with an even split during the academic year between coursework and research with a faculty advisor. Your summers will be devoted entirely to research. Many MLT grads continue on to pursue their doctorates at CMU and other top universities, while others find fulfilling careers at companies that value research and rapid innovation.

Learn With Us

Our curriculum provides a unified vision of very large information systems while preparing you for a professional career at leading IT, software services and social media companies.

Collaborate With Us

Education isn't limited to the classroom. You can help us ensure that our students have the real-world training they need to be successful in industry.

Connect With Us

As part of the MCDS program, you'll belong to many communities, at CMU and in Pittsburgh, that offer countless opportunities for growth and engagement.

News

LTI Students Earn Top Honors in Question-Answering Competition

A team of students from the Language Technologies Institute recently earned top honors for their performance in the BioASQ 2016 Biomedical Semantic Question Answering challenge.Held annually, BioASQ pushes for a solution to the information access problem biomedical experts face by posing challenges on both biomedical semantic indexing and question answering. The CMU team, comprising Zi Yang, a...

LTI Student's System Tops International Field in Live Question-Answering

A Carnegie Mellon system designed to rapidly answer questions — even some seemingly off the wall — posed to the Yahoo! Answers website received the highest score by far in the LiveQA evaluation track at the Text Retrieval Conference (TREC 2015)."This is the question answering that really matters to people," said LTI Professor and MCDS Director Eric Nyberg, who heads the Open Advancement...

Archive

Contact Us Master of Language Technologies

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-6298

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout