Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Academics

Research

Partnership

News

Events

DEI

LTI Intranet

Contact Us

Careers

Apply

Academics

Research

Partnership

People

Search form

Collaborate With Us

Benefits

At the LTI, we believe that the best work and biggest ideas happen when we work together. Our research relationships include everyone from local emergency management personnel to large corporations interested in data mining. We want you to join us.

Invest in Tomorrow's Leaders

By working with the LTI, you'll develop relationships with students who will go on to be leaders in the field — perhaps as interns or full-time employees in your company.

Be at the Forefront of Innovation

As a world-leader in language technologies research, we're ahead of the curve on innovations that change how we interact with machines and each other. You can be a part of that.

Commercialize Your Work

Carnegie Mellon nurtures and encourages business innovation and development. Your work with us could result in a business venture with far-reaching impact.

Ready to start working with us? To discuss any of these options — or to pitch one we may not have listed — contact Krista McGuigan.

Contact Us

How to Work With Us

The LTI offers multiple ways for you to collaborate with us.

Sponsor Research

Have a research problem that goes beyond the scope and scale of a capstone project? By sponsoring a research project, you'll gain access to LTI students and faculty who will collaborate with you to find a solution that meets your specific needs.

Sponsor a Capstone

Develop a relationship with a team of LTI students while working toward a solution to a challenge within your organization. Our students get real-world research experience and you get a team dedicated to solving your problem.

Join a Consortium

Seeking a longer-term partnership with CMU? Our industry consortia allow industry leaders to partner with us in ongoing research and development projects, receive invitations to select workshops and events, and more.

Educate Your Team

Let us create a workshop or tutorial session tailored to the goals of your staff, utilizing our world-class faculty to meet your professional development needs.

Give a Gift

Your financial gifts have the ability to make a direct impact on LTI students and faculty. Although gifts cannot be accompanied by any specific terms or agreements, they can be earmarked for a specific advancement cause.

Contact Us Language Technologies Institute

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-6591

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout