Skip to main content

Legal

Events

Register

25 Things

History

Video

Frequently Asked Questions

Event Locations:

Most SCS25 events will be held in the Gates and Hillman Centers on the west side of the campus, near Forbes Avenue. The Gates Center is also accessible from the Cut via the Pausch Bridge.

To get to the Gates Center from the Mall, enter Wean Hall and go down one floor, to the Fourth Floor. A bridge connects Wean Hall to Newell-Simon, and another bridge connects Newell-Simon to Gates.

Rashid Auditorium is located on the fourth floor of the Hillman Center --- the part of the Gates and Hillman Centers closest to Forbes Avenue.

Room 6115 is located on the sixth floor of the Gates Center --- the part of the Gates and Hillman Centers closest to Wean Hall.

Project Olympus is located at 4620 Henry St., approximately four blocks from the Gates and Hillman Centers. Walk west on Forbes Avenue to Craig Street. Then cross Forbes Avenue and walk three blocks north to Henry Street, then turn right. 4620 Henry St. will be on your right, about halfway down the block.

Parking:

Parking is at a premium on the Carnegie Mellon University campus.

Paid parking is available for visitors on a first-come, first-served basis at the following garages:

Collaborative Innovation Center (enter at railroad crossing on South Neville Street)

Gates Center Garage (enter via access road under Collaborative Innovation Center)

East Campus Garage (enter at intersection of Forbes Avenue and Devon Street) NOTE: Due to construction of the Cohon University Center, the main entrance of the East Campus Garage is closed, and the only entrance is via Beeler Street.

Dithridge Street Garage (located at Software Engineering Institute; enter from South Dithridge Street)

Limited on-street parking is available on Frew Street, Tech Street and Margaret Morrison Street, and adjacent to the campus in Pittsburgh's Schenley Park. Prices vary. Parking is controlled by meters, which are vigorously enforced by the Pittsburgh Parking Authority . You will need cash or a Visa or Mastercard to use these meters.

Hotels:

A list of hotels near the CMU Pittsburgh campus is available at the Cèilidh website .

Cèilidh:

Cèilidh is Carnegie Mellon University's blended celebration of Homecoming & Family Weekend, allowing alumni, current students and parents to meet and network. Many events require registration. To see a list of Cèilidh events and to register, visit the Cèilidh website .

Back to top