General Department News

List View

Grid View

CMU Basketball Team Honors ‘Secret Game’ of 1944

February 08, 2024

Tartans draw eyes to historical moment at start of Black History Month

Tartans Impress Once Again in Classroom During Fall Semester

January 16, 2024

The fall athletics season was highlighted by four team NCAA appearances, three University Athletic Association (UAA) Championships, and a football bowl victory, but the Tartans also continued their dominance in the classroom. Academically, 137 student-athletes recorded a perfect 4.0 grade-point average (GPA) with nearly 65 percent earning a 3.50 GPA or better.

Tartans Place 12 on Volleyball and Football Academic All-District Teams

December 19, 2023

Twelve volleyball and football Carnegie Mellon University student-athletes were named to a College Sports Communicators (CSC) Academic All-District Team for Division III, nominated by members of CSC, for the fall season. College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) rebranded to CSC in the summer of 2022.

Department Honors Top Academic Athletes at Annual Celebration

December 14, 2023

In its 10th year celebrating academic and athletic achievement, the Carnegie Mellon Department of Athletics welcomed faculty and staff to the annual Student-Athlete Academic Achievement Celebration to honor 35 of the highest-achieving juniors and seniors across all colleges and athletics teams on Wednesday. The celebration is always held on Reading Day during finals week.

12 Tartan Soccer Players Earn Academic All-District Honors from College Sports Communicators

November 29, 2023

Twelve Carnegie Mellon University student-athletes were named to the College Sports Communicators (CSC) Academic All-District Team for Division III Men's and Women's Soccer, nominated by members of CSC, for the fall season. College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) rebranded to CSC in the summer of 2022.

Athletics Hosts Student-Led Mental Health Summit

October 18, 2023

The Carnegie Mellon University Department of Athletics hosted a Mental Health Summit on Monday, October 16 for student-athletes to share their experiences and offer their concerns for mental health issues of college student-athletes. The summit was moderated by Rosie Cheng, the Assistant Director of Athletics for Student-Athlete Wellness and Belonging, and Shane Chaplin, the Executive Director of CMU’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS), and supported by The Plaidvocates.

2022-23 Athletics Annual Report

October 13, 2023

Following the most successful year in Carnegie Mellon Athletics history, which was highlighted by a team and individual national championship, the athletics department has released its annual report. The report, which details the program’s highlights from the 2022-23 athletic seasons, will be published following each academic year.

15 Tartans Earn UAA Presidents Council Scholar-Athlete Recognition

September 18, 2023

Carnegie Mellon University had 15 student-athletes named to the 14th annual University Athletic Association (UAA) Presidents Council Scholar-Athlete Team, as announced by the league’s office on Tuesday, September 12. The 15 Tartans, six from men’s track and field men’s cross country, two from women’s track and field, and one each from women’s basketball, women’s golf, women’s soccer, softball, women’s swimming and diving, women’s tennis, and volleyball, received the prestigious honor along with 117 other student-athletes representing all eight UAA member institutions.

Internal Promotions Kick Off New Year for Athletics Department

July 05, 2023

Carnegie Mellon University Director of Athletics Josh Centor has announced the promotion of four staff members along with three title changes to align with the department’s recently released five-year strategic plan. Among the promotions is the addition of Rosie Cheng and Alan Degennaro to the administrative leadership team.

Tartans Reach New Heights of Academic Achievement

July 03, 2023

The Tartans finished 14th in the annual Learfield Directors’ Cup standings, marking the best-ever finish for the university, and achieved high marks in the classroom once again, as 151 student-athletes recorded a 4.0 grade-point average (GPA). In conjunction with the number of 4.0s, 63 percent of the student-athletes earned a 3.50 GPA or better, with 16 programs producing at least a 3.40 team GPA.

Carnegie Mellon Athletics Earns Best-Ever Finish in Final Division III Learfield Directors’ Cup Standings for the Second Consecutive Year

June 13, 2023

The Carnegie Mellon University Department of Athletics finished 14th in the 2022-23 Division III Learfield Directors’ Cup standings, as announced by the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA). Carnegie Mellon totaled 777.00 points to record its highest finish in the 28-year history of the Learfield Directors’ Cup. Last school year, Carnegie Mellon was 15th. The Tartans are one of five University Athletic Association institutions to crack the top 25 in the standings.

Tartan Athletics Unveils New Strategic Plan

June 05, 2023

The Carnegie Mellon University Department of Athletics is pleased to unveil its strategic plan for 2023-2028.

Tartans Place 15 on Golf and Cross Country and Track and Field Academic All-District Teams

June 01, 2023

Fifteen Carnegie Mellon University student-athletes were named to a College Sports Communicators (CSC) Academic All-District Team for Division III, nominated by members of CSC, for the golf and cross country and track and field seasons. College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) rebranded to CSC in the summer of 2022.

Tartans Place Nine on Tennis and Softball Academic All-District Teams

May 17, 2023

Nine Carnegie Mellon University student-athletes were named to a College Sports Communicators (CSC) Academic All-District Team for Division III, nominated by members of CSC, for the tennis and softball seasons. College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) rebranded to CSC in the summer of 2022.

Six Athletes Among Initiates to Phi Beta Kappa

May 05, 2023

Six Carnegie Mellon University student-athletes were selected for spring initiation into the Upsilon of Pennsylvania chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa Society. The induction ceremony took place on May 11.

Tartans Celebrate 2022-23 Year at Annual Banquet

May 04, 2023

The Carnegie Mellon University Department of Athletics hosted its annual awards banquet on Wednesday, May 3 to celebrate the year and the accomplishments of the senior student-athletes. The event was hosted in Simmons Auditorium in the Tepper Quad.

Share

Facebook

Twitter

Email

Print