Jamie Callan7519329331
Papers that are published on 2023 and have open access are listed below with their titles, years, publication venues, as well as the author lists and abstracts are listed below 
['Conversational Search with Random Walks over Entity Graphs', '2023', ['International Conference on the Theory of Information Retrieval', 'Int Conf Theory Inf Retr', 'ICTIR'], "The entities that emerge during a conversation can be used to model topics, but not all entities are equally useful for this task. Modeling the conversation with entity graphs and predicting each entity's centrality in the conversation provides additional information that improves the retrieval of answer passages for the current question. Experiments show that using random walks to estimate entity centrality on conversation entity graphs improves top precision answer passage ranking over competitive transformer-based baselines.", ['Gustavo Gonçalves', 'João Magalhães', 'Jamie Callan']]
['KALE: Using a K-Sparse Projector for Lexical Expansion', '2023', ['International Conference on the Theory of Information Retrieval', 'Int Conf Theory Inf Retr', 'ICTIR'], 'Recent research has proposed retrieval approaches based on sparse representations and inverted indexes, with terms produced by neural language models and leveraging the advantages from both neural retrieval and lexical matching. This paper proposes KALE, a new lightweight method of this family that uses a small model with a k-sparse projector to convert dense representations into a sparse set of entries from a latent vocabulary. The KALE vocabulary captures semantic concepts than perform well when used in isolation, and perform better when extending the original lexical vocabulary, this way improving first-stage retrieval accuracy. Experiments with the MSMARCOv1 passage retrieval dataset, the TREC Deep Learning dataset, and BEIR datasets, examined the effectiveness of KALE under varying conditions. Results show that the KALE terms can replace the original lexical vocabulary, with gains in accuracy and efficiency. Combining KALE with the original lexical vocabulary, or with other learned terms, can further improve retrieval accuracy with only a modest increase in computational cost.', ['Luís Borges', 'Bruno Martins', 'Jamie Callan']]
['CSurF: Sparse Lexical Retrieval through Contextualized Surface Forms', '2023', ['International Conference on the Theory of Information Retrieval', 'Int Conf Theory Inf Retr', 'ICTIR'], 'Lexical exact-match systems perform text retrieval efficiently with sparse matching signals and fast retrieval through inverted lists, but naturally suffer from the mismatch between lexical surface form and implicit term semantics. This paper proposes to directly bridge the surface form space and the term semantics space in lexical exact-match retrieval via contextualized surface forms (CSF). Each CSF pairs a lexical surface form with a context source, and is represented by a lexical form weight and a contextualized semantic vector representation. This framework is able to perform sparse lexicon-based retrieval by learning to represent each query and document as a "bag-of-CSFs", simultaneously addressing two key factors in sparse retrieval: vocabulary expansion of surface form and semantic representation of term meaning. At retrieval time, it efficiently matches CSFs through exact-match of learned surface forms, and effectively scores each CSF pair via contextual semantic representations, leading to joint improvement in both term match and term scoring. Multiple experiments show that this approach successfully resolves the main mismatch issues in lexical exact-match retrieval and outperforms state-of-the-art lexical exact-match systems, reaching comparable accuracy as lexical all-to-all soft match systems as an efficient exact-match-based system.', ['Zhen Fan', 'Luyu Gao', 'Jamie Callan']]
['Active Retrieval Augmented Generation', '2023', ['Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing', 'Empir Method Nat Lang Process', 'Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing', 'Conf Empir Method Nat Lang Process', 'EMNLP'], 'Despite the remarkable ability of large language models (LMs) to comprehend and generate language, they have a tendency to hallucinate and create factually inaccurate output. Augmenting LMs by retrieving information from external knowledge resources is one promising solution. Most existing retrieval augmented LMs employ a retrieve-and-generate setup that only retrieves information once based on the input. This is limiting, however, in more general scenarios involving generation of long texts, where continually gathering information throughout generation is essential. In this work, we provide a generalized view of active retrieval augmented generation, methods that actively decide when and what to retrieve across the course of the generation. We propose Forward-Looking Active REtrieval augmented generation (FLARE), a generic method which iteratively uses a prediction of the upcoming sentence to anticipate future content, which is then utilized as a query to retrieve relevant documents to regenerate the sentence if it contains low-confidence tokens. We test FLARE along with baselines comprehensively over 4 long-form knowledge-intensive generation tasks/datasets. FLARE achieves superior or competitive performance on all tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of our method. Code and datasets are available at https://github.com/jzbjyb/FLARE.', ['Zhengbao Jiang', 'Frank F. Xu', 'Luyu Gao', 'Zhiqing Sun', 'Qian Liu', 'Jane Dwivedi-Yu', 'Yiming Yang', 'Jamie Callan', 'Graham Neubig']]
['Multi-Objective Improvement of Android Applications', '2023', ['arXiv.org', 'ArXiv'], 'Non-functional properties, such as runtime or memory use, are important to mobile app users and developers, as they affect user experience. Previous work on automated improvement of non-functional properties in mobile apps failed to address the inherent trade-offs between such properties. We propose a practical approach and the first open-source tool, GIDroid (2023), for multi-objective automated improvement of Android apps. In particular, we use Genetic improvement, a search-based technique that navigates the space of software variants to find improved software. We use a simulation-based testing framework to greatly improve the speed of search. GIDroid contains three state-of-the-art multi-objective algorithms, and two new mutation operators, which cache the results of method calls. Genetic improvement relies on testing to validate patches. Previous work showed that tests in open-source Android applications are scarce. We thus wrote tests for 21 versions of 7 Android apps, creating a new benchmark for performance improvements. We used GIDroid to improve versions of mobile apps where developers had previously found improvements to runtime, memory, and bandwidth use. Our technique automatically re-discovers 64% of existing improvements. We then applied our approach to current versions of software in which there were no known improvements. We were able to improve execution time by up to 35%, and memory use by up to 33% in these apps.', ['Jamie Callan', 'J. Petke']]
