Justine Cassell6216004218
Papers that are published on 2023 and have open access are listed below with their titles, years, publication venues, as well as the author lists and abstracts are listed below 
['When to generate hedges in peer-tutoring interactions', '2023', ['SIGDIAL Conferences', 'SIGDIAL', 'SIGDIAL Conf', 'Annu Meet Spéc Interest Group Discourse Dialogue', 'Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dialogue'], 'This paper explores the application of machine learning techniques to predict where hedging occurs in peer-tutoring interactions. The study uses a naturalistic face-to-face dataset annotated for natural language turns, conversational strategies, tutoring strategies, and nonverbal behaviors. These elements are processed into a vector representation of the previous turns, which serves as input to several machine learning models, including MLP and LSTM. The results show that embedding layers, capturing the semantic information of the previous turns, significantly improves the model’s performance. Additionally, the study provides insights into the importance of various features, such as interpersonal rapport and nonverbal behaviors, in predicting hedges by using Shapley values for feature explanation. We discover that the eye gaze of both the tutor and the tutee has a significant impact on hedge prediction. We further validate this observation through a follow-up ablation study.', ['Alafate Abulimiti', 'C. Clavel', 'Justine Cassell']]
['How About Kind of Generating Hedges using End-to-End Neural Models?', '2023', ['Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics', 'Annu Meet Assoc Comput Linguistics', 'Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics', 'ACL', 'Meet Assoc Comput Linguistics'], 'Hedging is a strategy for softening the impact of a statement in conversation. In reducing the strength of an expression, it may help to avoid embarrassment (more technically, “face threat”) to one’s listener. For this reason, it is often found in contexts of instruction, such as tutoring. In this work, we develop a model of hedge generation based on i) fine-tuning state-of-the-art language models trained on human-human tutoring data, followed by ii) reranking to select the candidate that best matches the expected hedging strategy within a candidate pool using a hedge classifier. We apply this method to a natural peer-tutoring corpus containing a significant number of disfluencies, repetitions, and repairs. The results show that generation in this noisy environment is feasible with reranking. By conducting an error analysis for both approaches, we reveal the challenges faced by systems attempting to accomplish both social and task-oriented goals in conversation.', ['Alafate Abulimiti', 'C. Clavel', 'Justine Cassell']]
['"You might think about slightly revising the title”: Identifying Hedges in Peer-tutoring Interactions', '2023', ['Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics', 'Annu Meet Assoc Comput Linguistics', 'Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics', 'ACL', 'Meet Assoc Comput Linguistics'], 'Hedges have an important role in the management of rapport. In peer-tutoring, they are notably used by tutors in dyads experiencing low rapport to tone down the impact of instructions and negative feedback.Pursuing the objective of building a tutoring agent that manages rapport with teenagers in order to improve learning, we used a multimodal peer-tutoring dataset to construct a computational framework for identifying hedges. We compared approaches relying on pre-trained resources with others that integrate insights from the social science literature. Our best performance involved a hybrid approach that outperforms the existing baseline while being easier to interpret. We employ a model explainability tool to explore the features that characterize hedges in peer-tutoring conversations, and we identify some novel features, and the benefits of a such a hybrid model approach.', ['Yann Raphalen', 'C. Clavel', 'Justine Cassell']]
