Lei Li479898181
Papers that are published on 2023 and have open access are listed below with their titles, years, publication venues, as well as the author lists and abstracts are listed below 
['Co-benefits of carbon neutrality in enhancing and stabilizing solar and wind energy', '2023', ['Nature Climate Change', 'Nat Clim Chang'], '', ['Yadong Lei', 'Zhili Wang', 'Deying Wang', 'Xiaoye Zhang', 'H. Che', 'Xu Yue', 'Chenguang Tian', 'J. Zhong', 'Lifeng Guo', 'Lei Li', 'Hao Zhou', 'Lin Liu', 'Yangyang Xu']]
['A Reverse-Biased Voltage Controlling Method for Mitigating Arm Overcurrent and Submodule Overvoltage in Hybrid MMCs During DC Faults', '2023', ['IEEE transactions on power electronics', 'IEEE trans power electron', 'IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics', 'IEEE Trans Power Electron'], "Blocking all submodules (SMs) of the hybrid modular multilevel converter is a simple way to clear dc fault currents. However, each arm's reverse-biased voltage (RBV) is uncontrolled in this method. In this case, the dc fault current will concentrate into two of the six arms. Thus, the maximum arm current will increase to the fault current in the dc line, which will lead to arm overcurrent. Moreover, full-bridge submodules (FB-SMs) will be charged by the large arm currents and may suffer from severe overvoltage. The arm overcurrent and FB-SM overvoltage problems have not been solved properly. This letter proposes a method to control the RBV of each arm during the dc fault-clearing process to relieve the arm overcurrent and FB-SM overvoltage. Thus, the safety of the converter can be improved. In the meantime, the impact on the dc fault clearing time is well limited. Simulations and experiments validated the proposed method.", ['Xiongfeng Fang', 'Gen Li', 'Cheng Wang', 'Lei Li']]
['Impacts of Aerosol Chemical Composition on Cloud Condensation Nuclei (CCN) Activity during Wintertime in Beijing, China', '2023', ['Remote Sensing', 'Remote Sens'], 'The cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) activity and aerosol chemical composition were concurrently measured via a scanning mobility CCN analyzer (SMCA) and an Aerodyne Time-of-Flight Aerosol Chemical Speciation Monitor (ACSM), respectively, during wintertime 2022 in Beijing, China. During the observation period, the mean CCN number concentrations ranged from 1345 ± 1270 cm−3 at SS = 0.1% to 3267 ± 2325 cm−3 at SS = 0.3%. The mean critical activation diameters (D50) at SS = 0.1%, 0.2%, and 0.3% were 172 ± 13 nm, 102 ± 8 nm, and 84 ± 7 nm, corresponding to the average hygroscopicity parameters (κCCN) of 0.34, 0.33, and 0.26, respectively. The diurnal variations in D50 suggested that the local primary emissions significantly enhanced D50 at SS = 0.2% and 0.3%, but had less influence on D50 at SS = 0.1% due to the limited size (<150 nm) of particles emitted from primary sources. As PM2.5 concentration increases, the dominant driver of CCN activity transitions from sulfate to nitrate. At a specific SS, D50 decreased with increases in the degree of internal mixing, implying that the elevated internal mixing degree during atmospheric aging was beneficial to CCN activation. In this study, the commonly used f44 (or O:C) was weakly correlated with κorg and failed to describe the variations in κorg. Instead, the variations in κorg can be well parameterized with the Org/BC ratio. The correlation between κ derived from bulk chemical compositions and CCN measurements was substantially improved when this κorg scheme was adopted, emphasizing the importance of considering κorg variations on deriving κchem from aerosol chemical composition.', ['QUAN LIU', 'X. Shen', 'Lei Li', 'Junying Sun', 'Zirui Liu', 'Weibin Zhu', 'J. Zhong', 'Yangmei Zhang', 'Xinyao Hu', 'Shuo Liu', 'H. Che', 'Xiaoye Zhang']]
['Quantitative Analysis of Natural Gas Diffusion Characteristics in Tight Oil Reservoirs Based on Experimental and Numerical Simulation Methods', '2023', ['ACS Omega', 'AC Omega'], 'As an important mechanism in gas injection development, the diffusion characteristics of natural gas in tight reservoirs are important in the dynamic prediction of the development effect and optimization of injection-production parameters. In this paper, a high-pressure and high-temperature oil–gas diffusion experimental device was built, which was used to study the effects of the porous medium, pressure, permeability, and fracture on oil–gas diffusion under tight reservoir conditions. Two mathematical models were used to calculate the diffusion coefficients of natural gas in bulk oil and cores. Besides, the numerical simulation model was established to study the diffusion characteristics of natural gas in gas flooding and huff-n-puff, and five diffusion coefficients were selected based on experimental results for simulation study. The remaining oil saturation of grids, the recovery of single layers, and the distribution of CH4 mole fraction in oil were analyzed based on the simulation results. The experimental results show that the diffusion process can be divided into three stages: the initial stage of instability, the diffusion stage, and the stable stage. The absence of medium, high pressure, high permeability, and the existence of fracture are beneficial to natural gas diffusion, which can also reduce the equilibrium time and increase the gas pressure drop. Furthermore, the existence of fracture is beneficial to the early diffusion of gas. The simulation results show that the diffusion coefficient has a greater influence on the oil recovery of huff-n-puff. For gas flooding and huff-n-puff, the diffusion features both perform such that a high diffusion coefficient results in a close diffusion distance, small sweep range, and low oil recovery. However, a high diffusion coefficient can achieve high oil washing efficiency near the injecting well. The study is helpful to provide theoretical guidance for natural gas injection in tight oil reservoirs.', ['Baishuo Liu', 'C. Yao', 'Yaqian Liu', 'Jia Zhao', 'Zhengdong Lei', 'Zhe Wang', 'Tianxiang Cheng', 'Lei Li']]
['Quantitative Evaluation of Dust and Black Carbon Column Concentration in the MERRA-2 Reanalysis Dataset Using Satellite-Based Component Retrievals', '2023', ['Remote Sensing', 'Remote Sens'], 'The aerosol optical property products of Modern-Era Retrospective Analysis for Research and Applications, version 2 (MERRA-2) reanalysis dataset have been extensively investigated on a global or regional scale. However, the understanding of MERRA-2 aerosol component products on an extensive temporal and spatial scale is inadequate. Recently, the aerosol component products have been derived from the observations of Polarization and Directionality of the Earth’s Reflectances/Polarization and Anisotropy of Reflectance for Atmospheric Science coupled with observations from a Lidar (POLDER/PARASOL). This study presents a quantitative evaluation of the MERRA-2 reanalysis dust and black carbon (BC) column concentration using independent satellite-based aerosol component concentration retrievals. Both GRASP/Component and MERRA-2 reanalysis products can capture well the temporal variation in dust column concentration over the dust emission resource and downwind dust-dominated regions with the correlation coefficient (R) varying from 0.80 to 0.98. MERRA-2 reanalysis dust products present higher column concentration than GRASP/Component dust retrievals with relative differences of about 20~70%, except in the Taklamakan Desert and Bay of Bengal, where the relative differences can be negative. The differences in dust column concentration over the African dust regions are larger than that over the Asian dust regions. Similar temporal variations in BC column concentration are characterized by both GRASP/Component BC retrievals and MERRA-2 BC products with R of about 0.70~0.90, except in the North China Plain region. We should pay more caution with the regional applicability of MERRA-2 component products when large differences and high correlation coefficients are obtained simultaneously. The results are favorable for identifying the behavior of MERRA-2 reanalysis component estimation in a new view and demonstrate a practical application of the satellite-based component retrievals, which could make more contributions to the improvement of model estimation in the near future.', ['Lei Li', 'H. Che', 'Xin Su', 'Xindan Zhang', 'K. Gui', 'Yu Zheng', 'Hujia Zhao', 'Hengheng Zhao', 'Yuanxin Liang', 'Yadong Lei', 'Lei Zhang', 'J. Zhong', 'Zhili Wang', 'Xiaoye Zhang']]
['Seasonal and Diurnal Characteristics of the Vertical Profile of Aerosol Optical Properties in Urban Beijing, 2017-2021', '2023', ['Remote Sensing', 'Remote Sens'], 'Seasonal and diurnal characteristics of the vertical profiles of aerosol properties are essential for detecting the regional transport and the climatic radiative effects of aerosol particles. We have studied the seasonal and diurnal characteristics of the vertical distribution of aerosols in urban Beijing from 2017 to 2021 based on long-term Raman–Mie LiDAR observations. The influence of the vertical distribution of aerosols, the meteorological conditions within the boundary layer, the optical–radiometric properties of aerosols, and their interconnections, were investigated during a heavy haze pollution event in Beijing from 8 to 15 February 2020 using both meteorological and sun photometer data. The aerosol extinction coefficient was highest in summer (0.4 km−1), followed by winter (0.35 km−1), and roughly equal in spring and autumn (0.3 km−1). The aerosol extinction coefficient showed clear daily variations and was different in different seasons as a result of the variation in the height of the boundary layer. During the haze pollution event, the particulate matter mainly consisted of scattered spherical fine particles and the accumulation time of pollutants measured via the AOD440nm and PM2.5 mass concentration was different as a result of the hygroscopic growth of the aerosol particles. This growth increased scattering and led to an increase in the aerosol optical depth. The vertical transport of particulate matter also contributed to the increase in the aerosol optical depth.', ['Xinglu Zhang', 'Yu Zheng', 'H. Che', 'K. Gui', 'Lei Li', 'Hujia Zhao', 'Yuanxin Liang', 'Wenrui Yao', 'Xindan Zhang', 'Hengheng Zhao', 'Yanting Lu', 'Xiaoye Zhang']]
['PlayGround Low Resource Machine Translation System for the 2023 AmericasNLP Shared Task', '2023', ['', ''], 'This paper presents PlayGround’s submission to the AmericasNLP 2023 shared task on machine translation (MT) into indigenous languages. We finetuned NLLB-600M, a multilingual MT model pre-trained on Flores-200, on 10 low-resource language directions and examined the effectiveness of weight averaging and back translation. Our experiments showed that weight averaging, on average, led to a 0.0169 improvement in the ChrF++ score. Additionally, we found that back translation resulted in a 0.008 improvement in the ChrF++ score.', ['Tianrui Gu', 'Kaie Chen', 'Siqi Ouyang', 'Lei Li']]
['Multilingual Machine Translation with Large Language Models: Empirical Results and Analysis', '2023', ['arXiv.org', 'ArXiv'], "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential in handling multilingual machine translation (MMT). In this paper, we systematically investigate the advantages and challenges of LLMs for MMT by answering two questions: 1) How well do LLMs perform in translating massive languages? 2) Which factors affect LLMs' performance in translation? We thoroughly evaluate eight popular LLMs, including ChatGPT and GPT-4. Our empirical results show that translation capabilities of LLMs are continually improving. GPT-4 has beat the strong supervised baseline NLLB in 40.91% of translation directions but still faces a large gap towards the commercial translation system, especially on low-resource languages. Through further analysis, we discover that LLMs exhibit new working patterns when used for MMT. First, instruction semantics can surprisingly be ignored when given in-context exemplars. Second, cross-lingual exemplars can provide better task guidance for low-resource translation than exemplars in the same language pairs. Third, LLM can acquire translation ability in a resource-efficient way and generate moderate translation even on zero-resource languages.", ['Wenhao Zhu', 'Hongyi Liu', 'Qingxiu Dong', 'Jingjing Xu', 'Lingpeng Kong', 'Jiajun Chen', 'Lei Li', 'Shujian Huang']]
