Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Academics

Research

Partnership

News

Events

DEI

LTI Intranet

Contact Us

Careers

Apply

Academics

Research

Partnership

People

Search form

Office: 5717 —Gates & Hillman Centers

Email: lsl@cs.cmu.edu

Phone: 412-268-6193

Department(s):

Language Technologies Institute

Personal Website

Lori Levin

Research Professor

Research Interests:

Machine Translation

Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics

Corpus Annotation and Resources

There are more than 6,000 human languages, but less than a hundred of them have robust language technologies such as search engines, spell checkers or speech recognition. Nevertheless, speakers of the technologically poor languages may have uses for language technologies to access information related to education, politics, business, weather and health conditions — not to mention preservation of culture and community relationships. My work focuses on the linguistic aspects of language technologies, specifically the following:

Language Technologies With Low Resources

Many languages lack sufficient data for supervised or unsupervised machine learning. There may also be low-resource scenarios for technology-rich languages like English in specialized styles or subject areas. Such cases may call for hybrids of human-engineered knowledge and machine learning. The human engineered knowledge can be in the form of handwritten rules, priors or feature engineering.

Language Universals and Typology

When there is insufficient time or data to build an NLP system, it is useful to fall back on what is known about human languages in general or what is known about related languages. The field of linguistic typology and universals provides expectations for what languages might be like. We are exploring how to use typology and universals to develop language technologies for new languages on short timelines or in low-resource scenarios.

Corpus Annotation and Linguistic Resources

When time and data are available, language technologies can be based on supervised learning from annotated data. The annotations may be for any level of linguistic knowledge from sounds to social hierarchies. My approach to annotation is based on the linguistic theory of construction grammar.

Contact Us Language Technologies Institute

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-6591

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout