Jump to navigation

☰ Menu

Academics

Research

Partnership

News

Events

DEI

LTI Intranet

Contact Us

Careers

Apply

Academics

Research

Partnership

People

Search form

LTI News

LTI Student Wins NYC AI Hackathon

PhD Student Ankit Shah's team win for their project "FactGPT"

by Bryan Burtner | Thursday, December 14, 2023

A team including LTI PhD student Ankit Shah won the top prize this year at the NYC AI GPT Hackathon. The team, which also included computer scientists from New York University, Google DeepMind, Magic Eden and Tupelo, came in first place at April 2023 edition of the event, hosted by Cornell University in New York City.

The team’s winning project, named FactGPT, is an automated fact checker for language models, conditioned on a knowledge base provided by Hackathon organizers. The team utilized Wikipedia embeddings released by Cohere AI, placed in the Pinecone vector database.

“... Read More

Fried Awarded 2023 Okawa Research Grant

by Aaron Aupperlee | Thursday, September 14, 2023

Daniel Fried , an assistant professor in Carnegie Mellon University's Language Technologies Institute , has received a 2023 Okawa Research Grant to continue his work of modeling human users of natural language processing systems.

Fried was one of seven professors in the U.S. to receive the prestigious... Read More

New LTI Director To Usher in 'Responsible Thinking' at CMU

Mona Diab Has Eyes Set on Changing How To Think About AI

by Aaron Aupperlee | Wednesday, August 23, 2023

Mona Diab understands what is at stake.

As a research scientist at two of the largest technology companies on the planet, Diab saw the impact innovations had as they spread across the globe. And with artificial intelligence poised to usher in the greatest technological leap since the internet, Diab wants to train, teach and prepare students, researchers, scientists and communities to think responsibly about these new tools.

"We're living in a world of proliferating AI and generative AI. There is so much at stake," Diab said. "We are at an inflection point for this technology... Read More

LTI Researchers Win Four Times at ACL

Faculty and students from the LTI took home three Outstanding Paper awards and one Resource Award at the prestigious conference

by Bryan Burtner | Friday, July 14, 2023

LTI researchers had much to celebrate at this year’s Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) annual meeting , taking home four awards for papers submitted to the conference.

The conference, now in its 61 st year, is one of the most prestigious worldwide in the fields of computational linguistics and natural language processing (NLP). ACL bills itself as “the premier international scientific and professional society” for researchers working in those areas.

The honorees included three papers by LTI researchers that won... Read More

LTI Launches New Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations

Online program allows professionals to learn foundational skills in computer programming, machine learning, and data science

by Bryan Burtner | Friday, June 30, 2023

The LTI is excited to announce the new Graduate Certificate in Computational Data Science Foundations program. Beginning in August, 2023, technically-savvy professionals will be able to enroll in this online program and learn to leverage AI and machine learning technology for harnessing the power of large scale data systems.

Applications should be submitted by July 15, 2023 for priority consideration, with a final admissions deadline of August 1, 2023.

For full details, including curriculum and application instructions, please visit the program website,... Read More

Artificial Intelligence Isn't All Scary

LTI Researcher Uses AI To Study Storytelling, Help Humans

by Susie Cribbs | Thursday, May 11, 2023

Long before computers or electricity, humans used stories to communicate. But with the rise of artificial intelligence and the proliferation of tools like ChatGPT that harness AI to generate text, it's easy to worry about the future of storytelling.

Carnegie Mellon University's Maarten Sap isn't worried. Instead, he's flipping the concern on its head by using computers and AI to learn more about how humans tell stories and applying the results to helping humans communicate better... Read More

Yang Inducted into SIGIR Academy

Professor Yiming Yang is second LTI faculty member inducted

by Bryan Burtner | Thursday, May 11, 2023

LTI Professor Yiming Yang has been inducted into the 2023 class of the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval (SIGIR) Academy , it was announced this week. The Academy, inaugurated in 2021, was established by SIGIR to "honor and recognize individuals who have made significant, cumulative contributions to the development of the field of information retrieval (IR)," and emphasizes research impact, innovations and service, and influence on the work of others.

Yang, an LTI... Read More

New Course Weaves Math and Engineering Into Art

"Recrafting Soft Technologies" course developed with help from LTI Interim Director Carolyn Rose

by Susie Cribbs | Thursday, December 15, 2022

For seven weeks this fall, 15 students from the arts and sciences gathered in the basement of Hunt Library constructing robotic looms they used to weave fabrics of their own design during Recrafting Soft Technologies, a new minicourse offered through the School of Computer Science and the Carnegie Mellon University's Integrative Design, Arts and Technology (IDeATe) initiative.

The course used an arts-based approach to teach introductory concepts in computer... Read More

LTI Researcher Dives to Titanic To Test Text-to-Video Technology

Work Could Extend Reach of Video Conferencing

by Aaron Aupperlee | Thursday, August 18, 2022

A researcher at Carnegie Mellon University and Karlsruhe Institute of Technology who has pioneered speech translation technologies dove to the wreck of the Titanic to test his latest work in the field.

From inside a submersible 13,000 feet beneath the North Atlantic, Alex Waibel recorded himself both narrating his dive and talking with the pilot as they journeyed to the legendary wreck. He then used speech recognition technology... Read More

SRS Call for Papers

Thursday, June 9, 2022

Read More

Pages

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

…

next ›

last »

Contact Us Language Technologies Institute

5000 Forbes Avenue

Pittsburgh, PA

15213-3891

412-268-6591

ltiwebmaster@cs.cmu.edu

Connect

Login |

Logout