3 2 0 2
y a M 6 2
] L C . s c [
1 v 4 7 1 7 1 . 5 0 3 2 : v i X r a
1
From Dogwhistles to Bullhorns: Unveiling Coded Rhetoric with Language Models
Julia Mendelsohn♢ ∗
Ronan Le Bras♣
Yejin Choi♠♣
Maarten Sap♡♣
♢University of Michigan School of Information
♣Allen Institute for AI
♠Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington ♡Language Technologies Institute, Carnegie Mellon University
# juliame@umich.edu
(cid:128) dogwhistles.allen.ai
Abstract
Warning: content in this paper may be upset- ting or offensive to some readers.
Dogwhistles are coded expressions that simul- taneously convey one meaning to a broad audi- ence and a second one, often hateful or provoca- tive, to a narrow in-group; they are deployed to evade both political repercussions and algo- rithmic content moderation. For example, in the sentence “we need to end the cosmopolitan experiment,” the word “cosmopolitan” likely means “worldly” to many, but secretly means “Jewish” to a select few. We present the first large-scale computational investigation of dog- whistles. We develop a typology of dogwhis- tles, curate the largest-to-date glossary of over 300 dogwhistles with rich contextual informa- tion and examples, and analyze their usage in historical U.S. politicians’ speeches. We then assess whether a large language model (GPT- 3) can identify dogwhistles and their mean- ings, and find that GPT-3’s performance varies widely across types of dogwhistles and targeted groups. Finally, we show that harmful content containing dogwhistles avoids toxicity detec- tion, highlighting online risks of such coded language. This work sheds light on the theo- retical and applied importance of dogwhistles in both NLP and computational social science, and provides resources for future research in modeling dogwhistles and mitigating their on- line harms.
Introduction
The cosmopolitan elite look down on the com-
mon affections that once bound this nation to-
gether: things like place and national feeling and
religious faith. . . The cosmopolitan agenda has
driven both Left and Right. . . It’s time we ended
the cosmopolitan experiment and recovered the
promise of the republic.
Figure 1: Schematic of how dogwhistles work, based on Henderson and McCready (2018) with the exam- ple of cosmopolitan. First, a speaker simultaneously communicates the dogwhistle message and their per- sona (identity). The in-group recovers both the message content and speaker persona, enabling them to arrive at the coded meaning (e.g. Jewish). The out-group only recognizes the message’s content and thus interprets it literally. This literal meaning also provides the speaker with plausible deniability; if confronted, the speaker can claim that they solely intended the literal meaning.
We have got this tailspin of culture,
in our
inner cities in particular, of men not working and
just generations of men not even thinking about
working or learning to value the culture of work.
–Paul Ryan (R-WI), 2014
Cosmopolitan and inner city are examples of dogwhistles, expressions that “send one message to an out-group and a second (often taboo, contro- versial, or inflammatory) message to an in-group” (Henderson and McCready, 2018). Many listen- ers would believe that Hawley is simply criticizing well-traveled or worldly people, but others recog- nize it as an attack on the Jewish people. Similarly, many assume that Ryan is discussing issues within a geographic location, but others hear a pernicious stereotype of Black men as lazy. Crucially, Hawley and Ryan can avoid alienating the out-group by maintaining plausible deniability: they never ex- plicitly say “Jewish” or “Black”, so they can reject accusations of racism (Haney-López, 2014).
–Josh Hawley (R-MO), 2019
∗Work done while interning at the Allen Institute for AI.
Because dogwhistles can bolster support for par-


ticular policies or politicians among the in-group while avoiding social or political backlash from the out-group, they are a powerful mechanism of political influence (Mendelberg, 2001; Goodin and Saward, 2005). For example, racist dogwhistles such as states’ rights and law and order were part of the post-Civil Rights Republican Southern Strat- egy to appeal to white Southerners, a historically Democratic bloc (Haney-López, 2014). Despite po- larization and technology that enables message tar- geting to different audiences, dogwhistles are still widely used by politicians (Haney-López, 2014; Tilley et al., 2020) and civilians in online conversa- tions (Bhat and Klein, 2020; Åkerlund, 2021).
Beyond political science, research on dogwhis- tles is urgent and essential for NLP, but they remain a challenge to study. Dogwhistles are actively and intentionally deployed to evade automated content moderation, especially hate speech detection sys- tems (Magu et al., 2017). They may also have harm- ful unseen impacts in other NLP systems by infil- trating data used for pretraining language models. However, researchers face many difficulties. First, unless they are a part of the in-group, researchers may be completely unaware of a dogwhistle’s ex- istence. Second, dogwhistles’ meanings cannot be determined by form alone, unlike most overt hateful or toxic language. Rather, their interpre- tation relies on complex interplay of different fac- tors (context, personae, content, audience identities, etc.; Khoo, 2017; Henderson and McCready, 2018, 2019; Lee and Kosse, 2020), as illustrated in Fig- ure 1. Third, since their power is derived from the differences between in-group and out-group in- terpretations, dogwhistles continuously evolve in order to avoid being noticed by the out-group.
We establish foundations for large-scale compu- tational study of dogwhistles by developing theory, providing resources, and empirically analyzing dogwhistles in several NLP systems. Prior work largely focuses on underlying mechanisms or polit- ical effects of dogwhistle communication (Albert- son, 2015; Henderson and McCready, 2018) and typically considers a very small number of dog- whistles (often just one). To aid larger-scale efforts, we first create a new taxonomy that highlights both the systematicity and wide variation in kinds of dogwhistles (§2.1). This taxonomy characterizes dogwhistles based on their covert meanings, style and register, and the personae signaled by their users. We then compile a glossary of 340 dogwhis-
tles, each of which is labeled with our taxonomy, rich contextual information, explanations, and real- world examples with source links (§2.2-2.3). As this glossary is the first of its kind, we highlight its value with a case study of racial dogwhistles in historical U.S. Congressional Speeches (§3).
We then apply our taxonomy and glossary to investigate how dogwhistles interact with existing NLP systems (§4). Specifically, we evaluate the ability of large language models (i.e. GPT-3) to retrieve potential dogwhistles and identify their covert meanings. We find that GPT-3 has a lim- ited capacity to recognize dogwhistles, and perfor- mance varies widely based on taxonomic features and prompt constructions; for example, GPT-3 is much worse at recognizing transphobic dogwhis- tles than racist ones. Finally, we show that hateful messages with standard group labels (e.g. Jewish) replaced with dogwhistles (e.g. cosmopolitan) are consistently rated as far less toxic by a commer- cially deployed toxicity detection system (Perspec- tive API), and such vulnerabilities can exacerbate online harms against marginalized groups (§5).
This work highlights the significance of dog- whistles for NLP and computational social sci- ence, and offers resources for further research in recognizing dogwhistles and reducing their harm- ful impacts. Our glossary, code, results, GPT- 3 outputs, and a form for adding new dogwhis- tles to our glossary are all available at: https: //dogwhistles.allen.ai.
2 Curating a dogwhistle glossary
2.1 Taxonomy
Based on prior work and our own investigations, we craft a new taxonomy (Figure 2). We categorize dogwhistles by register, type, and persona.
Register We label all dogwhistles as either part of a formal/offline or informal/online register. Formal/offline dogwhistles originated in offline contexts or are likely to appear in statements by mainstream political elites (e.g. family values). The informal/online register includes dogwhistles that originated on the internet and are unlikely to be used in political speech (e.g. cuckservative).
Type I Henderson and McCready (2018) distin- guish dogwhistles into two types: Type I dogwhis- tles covertly signal the speaker’s persona but do not alter the implicatures of the message itself, while Type II dogwhistles additionally alter the


Shared culture
Wonder-working power
Informal (online)
Stereotype group label
💜🤍💚
Target Group Label
New World Order
Phonetic or arbitrary label
Stereotype descriptor
Inner-city
Persona signal + added meaning (Type II)
Persona
Persona signal (Type I)
Humor
Bix nood
anti-Asianantisemiticclimate change denieranti-GMOliberalracist (anti-Black)anti-Latinoconservativereligiousanti-liberalhomophobictransphobicanti-vaxIslamophobicwhite supremacist
Self-referential
Register
Policy
Google
War on crime
Symbol
Family values
Type
Values
Concept
Dogwhistle
Formal (ofﬂine)
Bogeyman
George Soros
Adult human female
Other
Cosmopolitan
Figure 2: Visual hierarchical representation of our dogwhistle taxonomy along with examples of each type.
message’s implied meaning. We extend this typol- ogy to highlight the wide variety of dogwhistles, which has important consequences for building a theory of dogwhistles as well as future computa- tional modeling. We identify three subcategories of “only persona-signaling” (Type I) dogwhistles: symbols (including emojis, abbreviations, and im- agery), self-referential terms for members of the in-group, and dogwhistles that require specialized knowledge from a shared in-group culture.
Type II Dogwhistles with an “added message meaning” (Type II) tend to fall into two subcate- gories: they name a concept or serve as a substitute for a target group label. We further divide con- cepts into policies (titles for initiatives with covert implications, such as law and order), values that the in-group purports to uphold, expressions whose covert meanings are grounded in in-group humor, and other concepts, which are often coded names for entities that are not group labels (e.g. the New World Order conspiracy theory is antisemitic but does not name or describe Jewish people).
Dogwhistles serve as target group labels in three ways. Many are stereotype-based, whose interpre- tations rely on pre-existing associations between the dogwhistle and target group; we separate these into stereotype-based target group labels, which directly name the target group (e.g. cosmopoli- tan), while stereotype-based descriptors are less direct but still refer to the target group (e.g. inner- city). Others have an arbitrary or phonetic rela- tionship to the group label; these are commonly used to evade content moderation, such as “Opera- tion Google” terms invented by white supremacists on 4chan to replace various slurs (Magu et al., 2017; Bhat and Klein, 2020). The final subcat- egory, Bogeyman, includes names of people or
institutions taken to represent the target group (e.g. George Soros↔Jewish, or Willie Horton↔Black).
Persona Persona refers to the in-group identity signalled by the dogwhistle. Figure 2 lists some per- sonae, but this is an open class with many potential in-groups. There is considerable overlap in mem- bership of listed in-groups (e.g. white supremacists are often antisemitic), so we label persona based directly on explanations from sources referenced in our glossary (as described in 2.2). Drawing upon third-wave sociolinguistics, personae are not static labels or stereotypes; rather, people actively con- struct and communicate personae through linguistic resources, such as dogwhistles (Eckert, 2008).
2.2 Gathering dogwhistles
We draw from academic literature, media cover- age, blogs, and community-sourced wikis about dogwhistles, implicit appeals, and coded language. Since academic literature tends to focus on a small set of examples, we expanded our search to media coverage that identifies dogwhistles in recent polit- ical campaigns and speeches (e.g. Burack, 2020) or attempts to expose code words in hateful on- line communities (e.g. Caffier, 2017). During our search, we found several community-sourced wikis that provided numerous examples of dogwhistles, particularly the RationalWiki “Alt-right glossary”, “TERF glossary”, and “Code word” pages.1
2.3 Glossary contents
Our glossary contains 340 English-language dog- whistles and over 1,000 surface forms (morpho- logical variants and closely-related terms), mostly from the U.S. context. Each dogwhistle is labeled
1rationalwiki.org/wiki/{Alt-right_
glossary,TERF_glossary,Code_word}


Dogwhistle
Sex-based rights
In-group meaning
Trans people threaten cis women’s rights
Persona
Transphobic
Type
Concept: Value
Register
Formal
Explanation
Many anti-transgender people [claim that] women’s “sex-based rights” are somehow being threatened, removed, weakened, eroded, or erased by transgender rights. . . “Sex-based rights”, by the plain English meaning of those words, cannot exist in a country that has equality law. . . it’s mostly a dog-whistle: a rallying slogan much like “family values” for religious conservatives, which sounds wholesome but is a deniable and slippery code-word for a whole raft of unpleasant bigotry.
Source
Medium post by David Allsopp
Example
When so-called leftists like @lloyd_rm demand that we give up our hard-won sex-based rights, they align themselves squarely with men’s rights activists. To both groups, female trauma is white noise, an irrelevance, or else exaggerated or invented.
Context
Tweet by J.K. Rowling on June 28, 2020
Table 1: Example glossary entry for the transphobic dogwhistle sex-based rights
with its register, type, and signaled persona, an ex- planation from a linked source, and at least one example with linguistic, speaker, situational, and temporal context included, as well as a link to the example text. Table 1 shows one glossary entry for the transphobic dogwhistle sex-based rights.
Antisemitic, transphobic, and racist (mostly anti- Black but sometimes generally against people of color) dogwhistles are the most common, with over 70 entries for each persona. The glossary includes dogwhistles with other personae, such as homo- phobic, anti-Latinx, Islamophobic, anti-vax, and religious. See Table A.1 in the Appendix for glos- sary statistics across register, type, and persona. Because dogwhistles continuously evolve, we in- tend for this resource to be a living glossary and invite the public to submit new entries or examples.
3 Case study: racial dogwhistles in
historical U.S. Congressional speeches
We showcase the usefulness of our glossary, with a diachronic case study of racial dogwhistles in politicians’ speeches from the U.S. Congressional Record (Gentzkow et al., 2019; Card et al., 2022) to analyze the frequency of speeches containing racist dogwhistles from 1920-2020. For this case study, we simply identify glossary terms based on regular expressions and do not distinguish between covert and literal meanings of the same expressions. We also measure how ideologies of speakers using dog- whistles changed over time using DW-NOMINATE (Poole and Rosenthal, 1985), a scaling procedure
that places politicians on a two dimensional map based on roll call voting records, such that ideo- logically similar politicians are located near each other (Carroll et al., 2009; Lewis et al., 2023). We consider the first dimension of DW-NOMINATE, which corresponds to a liberal-conservative axis.2 As shown in Figure 3, dogwhistle use began to increase during the Civil Rights Era, following the 1954 Brown vs. Board of Education Supreme Court decision mandating racial integration of pub- lic schools. This aligns with qualitative accounts of the Republican Southern Strategy: because explicit racism was no longer acceptable, politicians turned to dogwhistles to make the same appeals implicitly, particularly aiming to gain the support of white voters in the Southern United States (Mendelberg, 2001). Their frequency continued to increase from the 1970s through the 1990s, paralleling Haney- López (2014)’s account of dogwhistles during the Nixon, Reagan, Bush Sr., and Clinton presiden- cies. Since the 1990s, the frequency of racial dog- whistles has fluctuated but remained high. Like Haney-López (2014), we qualitatively observe that the dogwhistles invoked post-9/11 have shifted to- wards being more Islamophobic and anti-Latinx rather than exclusively anti-Black. We caution that this case study and Figure 3 do not make novel claims; rather, our goal is to show that even a naive application of our glossary illustrates qualitatively well-established historical patterns in U.S. politics. Figure 4 shows how the average ideologies of speakers who use particular dogwhistles (property rights, thug, welfare reform, hardworking Amer- icans, and Willie Horton) have shifted over time, and reveals interesting insights into the evolution and lifecycle of dogwhistles. Most racial dogwhis- tles in the U.S. Congressional Speeches have be- come increasingly associated with more conserva- tive speakers over time. However, the inflection point when speaker ideologies shift varies across dogwhistles, suggesting that they emerged as dog- whistles at different points. For example, property rights became increasingly associated with more conservative speakers since the 1960s, while the average ideology of speakers using welfare reform
2The second dimension captures salient cross-cutting is- sues, and some argue that this dimension primarily captures race relations (Poole and Rosenthal, 1985). However, the sec- ond dimension’s interpretation is less clear as the vast majority of voting variation is along the first dimension, and is often ignored by political scientists (Bateman and Lapinski, 2016). We thus restrict this case study to the first dimension though future work may opt to consider the second dimension as well.


1980
0.01
0.00
Trump
1960
Brown vs BoE
1920
2020
0.03
2000
0.02
9 / 11
0.04Proportion of speechescontaining dogwhistles
Reagan
Obama
1940
Crime Bill
Civil Rights Act
Figure 3: Frequency of speeches containing racial dog- whistles in the U.S. Congressional Record (as a fraction of total speeches) over time. The dotted red vertical lines represent noteworthy years. Use of racial dogwhis- tles began to increase during the Civil Rights Movement and their frequency continued to rise until the 1990s. Since the 1990s, the frequency of speeches containing dogwhistles has fluctuated but remained at overall high levels compared to earlier years.
did not change until the 1990s.
Willie Horton presents an interesting example. In his 1988 presidential campaign, George Bush ran a television advertisement featuring Willie Horton, a Black man convicted of rape and murder while on prison furlough (Mendelberg, 2001). The ad was so powerful among white voters that it propelled Bush to victory, but shortly afterwards was explicitly called out as racist (Haney-López, 2014). We see this pattern in Figure 4: in 1988, Willie Horton was associated with extremely conservative speakers, but quickly became more liberal, and Willie Horton no longer functioned as a successful dogwhistle.
4 Recognition of dogwhistles in GPT-3
We conduct two experiments to assess if a large lan- guage model, GPT-3 (Brown et al., 2020), can rec- ognize dogwhistles. First, we interrogate whether GPT-3 is able to identify covert meanings of dog- whistles from our glossary, an ability that would be instrumental in understanding the breadth of on- line bigotry. Second, we measure GPT-3’s ability to surface dogwhistles, motivated by the fact that dogwhistles are often intentionally obscured from researchers which makes it impossible to ensure that a manual search is complete or comprehensive. Since GPT-3 is trained on large portions of internet data, it may be able to reveal a more comprehen- sive and diverse set of dogwhistles than manual efforts. Finally, we present a small manual analysis of in-context dogwhistle recognition using our glossary examples and GPT-4 as a proof of concept
Figure 4: Average ideology score (DW-NOMINATE first dimension) for speakers who used selected dog- whistles over time: welfare reform (top left), thug (top right), property rights (bottom left), and Willie Horton (bottom right). Higher values indicate that the dog- whistle’s speakers were more conservative, while lower values indicate that the dogwhistle’s speakers were more liberal. For visualization, trends are Lowess-smoothed.
for future work.
4.1
Identifying covert meanings
To gauge which types of in-group language GPT-3 might have seen during training, we examine if it is able to identify dogwhistles’ covert meanings.
Experimental setup We create prompts that vary in (1) which of the five definitions of dogwhistles is provided, if any, and (2) if the prompt includes a secret cue. For each input term, we construct 12 prompts (6 definitions including none, and each with or without a secret cue). Consider the example below, with a definition, secret cue, dogwhistle and GPT-3’s response . Prompts with no secret clue simply exclude the word secretly. We generate responses for each dogwhistle in the glossary and consider multiple forms for some, such as actual emojis as well as descriptions. We thus test 480 variants with 12 prompts for each, leading to 5,760 generations.3
A dogwhistle is the use of coded or suggestive
language in political messaging to garner support
from a particular group without provoking opposi-
tion. For example, “cosmopolitan” secretly means
“Jewish to many anti-Semitic people .
3We use the text-davinci-002 GPT-3 model with max_tokens=256, temperature=0.0 (more deterministic out- puts) and num_outputs=1.


No Definition With Definition
No Secret Cue With Secret Cue .085 [±.025] .437 [±.010]
.296 [±.021] .543 [±.010]
Table 2: Proportion of dogwhistles with covert mean- ings identified by GPT-3 when prompted with a dog- whistle definition, a secret cue, both, or neither. Confi- dence intervals are shown in brackets.
Results The first author manually evaluated whether or not each of the 5,760 GPT-3 generations contains the covert meaning for each dogwhistle. 80.3% of dogwhistles had their covert meanings identified in at least one generation. Overall, 56.0% generations contained the correct covert meaning for dogwhistles that are part of the formal/offline register, but just 29.4% for dogwhistles in the infor- mal/online register. We refer readers to Appendix A.2 (Figure A.2) for more details about register- based variation and examples of dogwhistles for which GPT-3 performed particularly well or poorly. The specific prompt form strongly impacts GPT- 3’s ability to generate covert meanings (Table 2). Without a definition or secret cue, covert meanings are identified in just 8.5% of generations. Including both a definition and secret cue improves GPT-3’s performance over 5-fold, with dogwhistles’ covert meanings identified in 54.3% of generations.
We observe wide variation in GPT-3’s ability to identify covert meanings across personae. Among the most represented personae in our glossary (at least 100 generations for each), GPT-3 has the lowest recognition of transphobic dogwhis- tles, the highest recognition of homophobic and Islamophobic dogwhistles, with antisemitic, white supremacist, and racist dogwhistles in the mid- dle (Appendix Table A.3). There is also variation in performance by dogwhistle type and the spe- cific definition provided; we refer the reader to Appendix A.2 and Figure A.3 for more details.
4.2 Surfacing dogwhistles
In addition to evaluating if GPT-3 can identify dog- whistles’ covert meanings, we assess GPT-3’s abil- ity to surface dogwhistles in text generation.
Experimental setup We construct a series of prompts that begin with one of five definitions of dogwhistles from prior work (Table A.2). The def- inition is followed by a question or request for examples (see Appendix A.1 for more prompting details). In the following example, the definition is
marked in blue, the request in purple, and GPT-3’s response is highlighted in yellow .
A dogwhistle is the use of coded or suggestive
language in political messaging to garner support
from a particular group without provoking oppo-
sition. What are examples of dogwhistles?
1. “Law and order”
2. “The silent majority”
3. “Family values”
4. “Welfare queens”
5. “Illegal aliens”
Evaluation We use our glossary as a proxy to measure precision and recall of GPT-3’s ability to surface dogwhistles because an exhaustive ground- truth set of dogwhistles does not exist. We cal- culate recall as the proportion of dogwhistles in our glossary that were also surfaced at least once by GPT-3. For precision, the authors manually inspect candidates appearing in at least 4% of GPT- 3 text generations for generic, white supremacist, racist, antisemitic, Islamophobic, and transphobic prompt types. Because our glossary is not exhaus- tive, this method yields conservative estimates (see Appendix A.1 for more evaluation details).
Precision Results We find that GPT-3 does have the ability to surface dogwhistles when prompted to do so, but caution that such results are imperfect and require manual verification. The most common errors involve explicit mentions of groups in stereo- types or conspiracy theories (Jews are behind the 9/11 attacks) or phrases that may accompany dog- whistles but are not dogwhistles themselves (I’m not racist but...). Precision in dogwhistle surfacing varies across prompt types; while the average pre- cision over all six prompt types is 66.8%, scores range from just 50% for transphobic dogwhistle prompts to 91.3% for generic prompts (Figure A.1).
Recall Results GPT-3 surfaced 153 of 340 dog- whistles in our glossary (45%). We observe sig- nificant differences by register: GPT-3 surfaced 69.4% of formal/offline dogwhistles but just 12.9% of informal/online dogwhistles. Despite its ability to generate emojis and other symbols, GPT-3 did not surface any symbols or emojis from our glos- sary except for the antisemitic triple parentheses “((()))”.
Figure 5 shows GPT-3 surfacing recall results by both register and in-group personae. We show results for the five most-frequent personae repre- sented in our glossary. Recall of dogwhistles in the


0.8
Informal/OnlineFormal/OfflineRegister
0.2
white supremacist
0.0
Islamophobic
0.6
racist
antisemitic
0.4
transphobic
1.0"Recall" of GPT-3 dogwhistle surfacing
Figure 5: Recall of GPT-3 dogwhistle surfacing sep- arated by persona and register. Across all personae, GPT-3 surfaces under 20% of dogwhistles in the infor- mal/online register. Performance is much higher for the formal/offline register but varies across personae, rang- ing from 44.8% (transphobic) to 100% (Islamophobic).
informal/online register is low across the board. For the formal/offline register, recall is considerably higher although it varies widely across personae. As with precision, GPT-3 has the lowest perfor- mance for transphobic dogwhistles, surfacing just 44.8% of formal/offline transphobic dogwhistles. For formal/offline antisemitic dogwhistles, recall is considerably higher but far from perfect at 71.7%. GPT-3 has 80.3% and 83.3% recall of racist and white supremacist dogwhistles, respectively, and full 100% recall of Islamophobic dogwhistles.
4.3
Identifying dogwhistles in context
Our experiments show that LLMs have some ability to identify covert meanings of a given dogwhistle specified in the prompt (Section 4.1) and gener- ate dogwhistles (Section 4.2). We now consider a natural follow-up question: can LLMs correctly identify dogwhistles in real-world texts?
Fully addressing this question would require a larger dataset including a variety of linguistic con- texts per dogwhistle, documents containing no dog- whistles, and documents with dogwhistle expres- sions that do not carry the dogwhistle meaning. We leave such a rigorous analysis for future work. For now, we present a small manual analysis with ChatGPT/GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023), using several real-world examples from our glossary as a proof of concept for in-context dogwhistle recognition.
We prompt GPT-4 with the instructions below. Appendix Table A.5 shows the exact glossary exam- ple and GPT-4 output text for the dogwhistles cos- mopolitan (elite) (antisemitic), inner-city (racist),
#IStandWithJKRowling, did you see Kyle? (white supremacist).
(transphobic), and
A dogwhistle is the use of coded or suggestive
language in political messaging to garner support
from a particular group without provoking oppo-
sition. Identify the dogwhistle in the following
message: [GLOSSARY EXAMPLE].
Using the examples presented in Section 1, GPT- 4 correctly identifies the dogwhistles cosmopolitan (elite) and inner city, and generates a correct ex- planation for their covert meanings. However, the model does not work as well for the other examples. For the example containing #IStandWithJKRowl- ing, GPT-4 correctly identifies that text covertly signals transphobia through support of JK Rowling, but does not select this hashtag as the dogwhis- tle. On the other hand, GPT-4 correctly identifies the dogwhistle in a tweet from JK Rowling, and correctly relates this symbol to the women’s suffrage movement, but does not capture the ap- propriation of this symbol to covertly communi- cate transphobia. Finally, GPT-4 misses both the dogwhistle and the precise covert meaning for did you see Kyle? (“see Kyle” sounds similar to the Nazi slogan “Sieg Heil”); while the model still ul- timately identifies covert white supremacy, it gen- erates a false explanation connecting the glossary example to this persona.
5 Dogwhistles and toxicity detection
Beyond evaluating language models’ ability to rec- ognize dogwhistles, we seek to understand how dogwhistles affect the decisions that NLP systems make, and how this has downstream implications for content moderation and online safety. We begin to address this with a study of how dogwhistles are handled by a widely-deployed toxic language de- tection system, Google/Jigsaw’s Perspective API.4 Perspective API scores a text between 0 and 1 for a range of attributes (e.g. toxicity, identity attack, profanity), representing the estimated probability that a reader would perceive the text to contain that attribute. Perspective API’s models are mul- tilingual BERT-based models distilled into single- language convolutional neural networks for faster inference, and are trained on annotated data from online forums. We refer readers to the Perspective API Model Cards for more details.5
4https://perspectiveapi.com/ 5https://developers.perspectiveapi.
com/s/about-the-api-model-cards


dogwhistle
0.1
Term Category
0.540.110.240.710.280.560.760.330.73
0.3
slur
0.2
0.8Perspective API Score
ToxicitySevere ToxicityIdentity Attack
0.0
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
standard
Figure 6: Average Perspective API toxicity, severe toxi- city, and identity attack scores for HateCheck template sentences filled in with dogwhistles, slurs, or standard group labels.
Experimental setup We consider 237 hateful sentence templates from HateCheck (Röttger et al., 2021), a test suite for bias in hate speech detec- tion, that contain placeholders for identity terms (group referents) in either adjectival, singular nom- inal, or plural nominal forms. We fill filled with a standard group label, a slur, or a dogwhistle in the corresponding grammatical form requested by the template. For this experiment, we consider racist (mostly anti-Black), antisemitic, and transphobic terms, as these personae are the most common in our glossary (see Tables A.7 and A.8 for a sample of sentence templates and group label terms, re- spectively). We feed our resulting 7,665 sentences to Perspective API to get scores for toxicity, severe toxicity, and identity attack.
Results Hateful sentences are rated as less toxic, less severely toxic, and less identity-attacking when dogwhistles are used instead of standard group la- bels or slurs (Figure 6). This pattern holds for all three personae (Appendix Figure A.4).
Interestingly, mean toxicity scores for slurs are lower than for standard group labels, especially for antisemitic slurs. We observe relatively wide varia- tion in Perspective API’s ratings depending on the specific choice of slur. For example, sentences con- taining the N-word are almost always rated as more toxic than the same sentences containing Black or Black people. Lower toxicity ratings for other slurs, such as the highly derogatory antisemitic K-word6 may be because, similar to dogwhistles, Perspec- tive API does not recognize that these terms refer
6https://ajc.org/translatehate/kike
to identity groups. However, deeper analysis of slurs is outside the scope of the current work.
6 Discussion & Conclusion
We lay the groundwork for NLP and computational social science research on dogwhistles by develop- ing a new taxonomy and glossary with rich contex- tual information and examples. We demonstrate our glossary’s utility in a case study of historical U.S. Congressional speeches, where our quantita- tive analysis aligns closely with historical accounts. We further use our glossary to show that GPT-3 has some, but limited, ability to retrieve dogwhis- tles and recognize their covert meanings. Finally, we verify that dogwhistles readily evade Perspec- tiveAPI’s toxicity detection. We now turn to several implications of this work, highlighting potential fu- ture directions across disciplines.
Dogwhistles and toxic language Dogwhistles are closely related to other forms of subtle biases studied in NLP, such as implicit hate speech and symbols (Magu et al., 2017; Magu and Luo, 2018; ElSherief et al., 2018, 2021; Qian et al., 2019; Caselli et al., 2020; Menini et al., 2021; Arviv et al., 2021; Botelho et al., 2021; Wiegand et al., 2021a,b; Hartvigsen et al., 2022), microaggressions (Breitfeller et al., 2019), dehumanization (Mendel- sohn et al., 2020), propaganda (Da San Martino et al., 2020), condescension (Pérez-Almendros et al., 2020), and stereotypes (Nangia et al., 2020; Sap et al., 2020; Nadeem et al., 2021).
However, dogwhistles are distinct from toxic lan- guage in several important ways. First, although of- ten implicitly abusive, they are not exclusively hate- ful; for example, wonder-working power covertly signals the speaker’s Evangelical Christian iden- tity (Albertson, 2015). Second, dogwhistles are characterized by dual meanings, wherein different sub-audiences interpret the exact same message dif- ferently (Henderson and McCready, 2018). Third, dogwhistles’ true meanings are intentionally hid- den from the out-group (Saul, 2018). Nevertheless, because dogwhistles are often deployed specifically to avoid hate speech detection and other content moderation tools, NLP researchers should consider how dogwhistles highlight a vulnerability in ex- tant language technologies, which ultimately puts people’s safety and well-being at risk.
We show that hateful speech using dogwhistles evades toxicity detection, and is one way that NLP systems (unintentionally) perpetuate harms against


marginalized groups. This finding is not surprising, as prior work shows that toxicity detection often fails on subtle language (Han and Tsvetkov, 2020; Hartvigsen et al., 2022), but underscores the need for toxicity and hate speech detection models to be able to flag hateful dogwhistles. One poten- tial approach to improve such models could be to train them to recognize dogwhistles in naturally- occurring in-group contexts (starting with model- ing contextual factors; Zhou et al., 2023). More broadly, content moderation pipelines should take context into account and consider mechanisms to identify when a dogwhistle has potentially negative consequences. Beyond toxicity detection, future work ought to consider the impact of dogwhistles in a broader range of NLP tasks, such as bias miti- gation or story generation.
How do LLMs know about dogwhistles? Our findings regarding GPT-3’s ability to surface and identify dogwhistles’ covert meanings are probably driven by the contents of the training data. GPT-3’s training data likely includes right-wing extremist content, as has been shown with its predecessor GPT-2 (Gehman et al., 2020), which may result in high performance for dogwhistles from these in-groups. Or perhaps the model is simply memo- rizing articles or social media posts that explicitly call out certain expressions as dogwhistles. Fu- ture work could evaluate if large language models can learn dogwhistles’ covert meanings from in- context usage alone by experimentally controlling for whether or not these terms are explicitly ex- posed as dogwhistles in the training data.
Moreover, we find that GPT-3’s performance varies widely across target groups. Transphobic dogwhistles are notably difficult for GPT-3 to sur- face and identify. Perhaps this is because the model is trained on fewer data from transphobic communi- ties compared to other in-groups considered in this work. Furthermore, transphobic dogwhistles may be less frequent in the training data because many have emerged relatively recently. Another reason may be formatting: transphobic dogwhistles are of- ten emoji-based and appear in social media screen names and profile bios rather than in posts them- selves. We hope that future work will investigate the links between language models’ knowledge of dogwhistles and training data.
Potential of LLMs for dogwhistle research Be- yond the risks presented by current NLP technolo- gies, we wish to highlight the potential benefits of
using NLP to advance dogwhistle research. Even though LLMs’ performance is likely due to vast training data, and even then, their outputs require manual verification, our experiments with GPT-3 demonstrate that LLMs have some ability to sur- face dogwhistles and explain their covert meanings. This is particularly valuable as dogwhistles are in- tentionally hidden from out-group members, and out-group researchers may have no other way to access this information. There is thus a unique op- portunity for LLMs to assist dogwhistle research, and political content analysis more broadly.
Bridging large-scale analysis and mathematical models Our work builds foundations for large- scale computational analysis of dogwhistles in real- world political discourse. We diverge from prior quantitative dogwhistle research, which focuses on mathematically modeling the process underly- ing dogwhistle communication using probabilis- tic, game-theoretic, deep learning, and network- based approaches on simulation data (Smaldino et al., 2018; Dénigot and Burnett, 2020; Hender- son and McCready, 2020; Breitholtz and Cooper, 2021; Smaldino and Turner, 2021; Xu et al., 2021; Hertzberg et al., 2022; van der Does et al., 2022). We are optimistic about future research synthesiz- ing these two strands of work to address many of the challenges presented by dogwhistles. For exam- ple, future work could use our resources along with these mathematical models to develop systems that can automatically detect dogwhistle usages, emer- gence of new dogwhistles, or decline of older terms as dogwhistles due to out-group awareness.
Implications for social science research Under- standing dogwhistles at scale has vast implications across disciplines, so we develop resources useful for both NLP and social science researchers. We provide the most comprehensive-to-date glossary of dogwhistles and demonstrate through our case study how this resource can be used to analyze po- litical speeches and other corpora, such as social media posts and newspaper articles. Dogwhistles have mostly been studied using primarily qualita- tive methods (Moshin, 2018; Åkerlund, 2021) and experiments (Albertson, 2015; Wetts and Willer, 2019; Thompson and Busby, 2021), and we hope that by facilitating quantitative content analysis, our resources can add to dogwhistle researchers’ methodological repertoires.


7 Limitations
This work represents an initial push to bring dog- whistles to the forefront of NLP and computational social science research, and as such, has many lim- itations. Our glossary is the most comprehensive resource to date (to the best of our knowledge) but aims to document a moving target, as dogwhistles continuously emerge or fall out of use due to out- group awareness. We aim to make this resource a “living glossary” and encourage others to submit new entries or examples. We further encourage future research to develop models to automatically detect the emergence of new dogwhistles.
Another major limitation in this work is that we identify as out-group members for nearly all dog- whistles in the glossary and have an adversarial relationship with many of the communities stud- ied (e.g. white supremacists). Although our work would ideally be validated by members of the in- groups, they have very little incentive to share this information, as that would damage the dogwhistle’s utility as a tool for covert in-group communication.
This work, like most prior work, is limited in that we operationalize dogwhistles as a static binary; we assume each term either does or does not have a dogwhistle interpretation and is categorically in- cluded or excluded from our glossary and analyses. In reality, dogwhistles are far more complicated constructs. For example, Lee and Kosse (2020) characterize dogwhistles along two dimensions: the size of their in-group and the degree to which their usage is conventionalized. Other axes of vari- ation may include the level of out-group awareness, and the social and political risks of backlash to the communicator if the dogwhistle interpretation is exposed. It is even possible that audience mem- bers who hear a dogwhistle further recirculate it even if they themselves do not recognize the covert meaning (Saul, 2018). We hope future work will consider multifaceted and continuous measures of “dogwhistleness" that account for such nuances.
Finally, the current work is limited in the scope of dogwhistles considered: they are all in English with the vast majority coming from the U.S. polit- ical and cultural contexts. However, dogwhistles are prominent across cultures (Pal et al., 2018; Åk- erlund, 2021) and we hope that future work will consider other languages and cultures, especially involving researchers who have high awareness of or expertise in non-U.S political environments.
8 Ethical Implications
We caution readers about several potential ethi- cal risks of this work. First is the risk of readers misusing or misunderstanding our glossary. We emphasize that dogwhistles are extremely context- dependent, and most terms in the glossary have benign literal meanings that may be more common than the covert dogwhistle meanings. For example, many entities from the financial sector have been used as antisemitic dogwhistles (e.g. the Federal Reserve, bankers) but their primary usage has no antisemitic connotations.
Relatedly, some glossary entries include terms that originate from the target group but were ap- propriated by the dogwhistles’ in-group. Examples include the appropriation of goy (a Yiddish word for non-Jewish people) as an antisemitic in-group signal, and baby mama (originally from African American English) as a racist dogwhistle. As with hate speech detection (Sap et al., 2019), there is a risk of social bias in dogwhistle detection.
As we have discussed throughout this work, dog- whistle researchers face a challenge with no exhaus- tive ground truth and an unknown search space. We anticipate our glossary being a helpful resource for this reason, but because we also lack such exhaus- tive ground truth, there are bound to be biases in the representation of dogwhistles in our glossary. The current version of the glossary may exclude groups and thus lead to worse performance in dogwhis- tle detection, toxic language detection, and other downstream NLP tasks.
Our glossary also includes real-world examples of how each dogwhistle is used. This presents a privacy risk, which we mitigate by prioritizing examples from public figures or examples from anonymous social media accounts whenever possi- ble. We do not release personal information of any speaker who is not a well-known public figure.
Finally, we do not pursue any computational modeling or prediction of dogwhistle usages in this work, but see it as a natural direction for future work. However, we caution researchers to con- sider dual-use issues in doing so. Many people use coded language in order to avoid censorship from authoritarian regimes (Yang, 2016) and marginal- ized groups may also use coded language for their own safety (Queen, 2007). When building com- putational models, we urge researchers to mitigate this dual-use risk as much as possible.


Acknowledgements
We thank Ceren Budak, Yulia Tsvetkov, and audi- ences at Text as Data 2022 (TADA) and New Ways of Analyzing Variation 50 (NWAV) for their helpful feedback on an earlier version of this work. We also thank the anonymous reviewers for their comments and suggestions. J.M. gratefully acknowledges sup- port from the Google PhD Fellowship.
References
Mathilda Åkerlund. 2021. Dog whistling far-right code words: the case of ‘culture enricher’on the swedish web. Information, Communication & Society, pages 1–18.
Bethany L Albertson. 2015. Dog-whistle politics: Mul- tivocal communication and religious appeals. Politi- cal Behavior, 37(1):3–26.
Eyal Arviv, Simo Hanouna, and Oren Tsur. 2021. It’s a thin line between love and hate: Using the echo in modeling dynamics of racist online communities. Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media, 15(1):61–70.
David A Bateman and John Lapinski. 2016. Ideal points and american political development: Beyond dw- nominate. Studies in American Political Develop- ment, 30(2):147–171.
Prashanth Bhat and Ofra Klein. 2020. Covert hate speech: White nationalists and dog whistle commu- In Twitter, the public sphere, nication on twitter. and the chaos of online deliberation, pages 151–172. Springer.
Austin Botelho, Scott Hale, and Bertie Vidgen. 2021. Deciphering implicit hate: Evaluating automated de- tection algorithms for multimodal hate. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL-IJCNLP 2021, pages 1896–1907.
Luke Breitfeller, Emily Ahn, David Jurgens, and Yulia Tsvetkov. 2019. Finding microaggressions in the wild: A case for locating elusive phenomena in social media posts. In Proceedings of the 2019 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing and the 9th international joint conference on natural language processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 1664– 1674.
Ellen Breitholtz and Robin Cooper. 2021. Dogwhis- tles as inferences in interaction. In Proceedings of the Reasoning and Interaction Conference (ReInAct 2021), pages 40–46.
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:1877–1901.
Emily Burack. 2020. A list of antisemitic dogwhistles
used by donald trump. Hey Alma.
Justin Caffier. 2017. Get to know the memes of the alt-right and never miss a dog-whistle again. Vice.
Dallas Card, Serina Chang, Chris Becker, Julia Mendel- sohn, Rob Voigt, Leah Boustan, Ran Abramitzky, and Dan Jurafsky. 2022. Computational analysis of 140 years of us political speeches reveals more positive but increasingly polarized framing of immigration. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 119(31):e2120510119.
Royce Carroll, Jeffrey B Lewis, James Lo, Keith T Poole, and Howard Rosenthal. 2009. Measuring bias and uncertainty in dw-nominate ideal point esti- mates via the parametric bootstrap. Political analysis, 17(3):261–275.
Tommaso Caselli, Valerio Basile, Jelena Mitrovi´c, Inga Kartoziya, and Michael Granitzer. 2020. I feel of- fended, don’t be abusive! implicit/explicit messages in offensive and abusive language. In Proceedings of the 12th language resources and evaluation confer- ence, pages 6193–6202.
Giovanni Da San Martino, Alberto Barrón-Cedeño, Henning Wachsmuth, Rostislav Petrov, and Preslav Nakov. 2020. SemEval-2020 task 11: Detection of propaganda techniques in news articles. In Proceed- ings of the Fourteenth Workshop on Semantic Evalu- ation, pages 1377–1414, Barcelona (online). Interna- tional Committee for Computational Linguistics.
Quentin Dénigot and Heather Burnett. 2020. Dogwhis- tles as identity-based interpretative variation. In Pro- ceedings of the Probability and Meaning Conference (PaM 2020).
Penelope Eckert. 2008. Variation and the indexical field
1. Journal of sociolinguistics, 12(4):453–476.
Mai ElSherief, Vivek Kulkarni, Dana Nguyen, William Yang Wang, and Elizabeth Belding. 2018. Hate lingo: A target-based linguistic analysis of hate speech in social media. In Proceedings of the Inter- national AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media, volume 12.
Mai ElSherief, Caleb Ziems, David Muchlinski, Vaish- navi Anupindi, Jordyn Seybolt, Munmun De Choud- hury, and Diyi Yang. 2021. Latent hatred: A bench- mark for understanding implicit hate speech. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.05322.
Samuel Gehman, Suchin Gururangan, Maarten Sap, Yejin Choi, and Noah A Smith. 2020. Realtoxici- typrompts: Evaluating neural toxic degeneration in In Findings of the Association language models. for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020, pages 3356–3369.
Matthew Gentzkow, Jesse M Shapiro, and Matt Taddy. 2019. Measuring group differences in high- dimensional choices: method and application to con- gressional speech. Econometrica, 87(4):1307–1340.


Robert E Goodin and Michael Saward. 2005. Dog whis- tles and democratic mandates. The Political Quar- terly, 76(4):471–476.
Xiaochuang Han and Yulia Tsvetkov. 2020. Fortify- ing toxic speech detectors against veiled toxicity. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 7732–7739, Online. Association for Computa- tional Linguistics.
Ian Haney-López. 2014. Dog whistle politics: How coded racial appeals have reinvented racism and wrecked the middle class. Oxford University Press.
Thomas Hartvigsen, Saadia Gabriel, Hamid Palangi, Maarten Sap, Dipankar Ray, and Ece Kamar. 2022. Toxigen: A large-scale machine-generated dataset for adversarial and implicit hate speech detection. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 3309–3326.
Robert Henderson and Elin McCready. 2018. How dogwhistles work. New Frontiers in Artificial Intelli- gence, pages 231–240.
Robert Henderson and Elin McCready. 2019. Dogwhis- tles, trust and ideology. In Proceedings of the 22nd Amsterdam Colloquium, pages 152–160.
Robert Henderson and Elin McCready. 2020. Towards functional, agent-based models of dogwhistle com- munication. In Proceedings of the Probability and Meaning Conference (PaM 2020), pages 73–77.
Niclas Hertzberg, Robin Cooper, Elina Lindgren, Björn Rönnerstrand, Gregor Rettenegger, Ellen Breitholtz, and Asad Sayeed. 2022. Distributional properties of political dogwhistle representations in swedish bert. In Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Online Abuse and Harms (WOAH), pages 170–175.
Justin Khoo. 2017. Code words in political discourse.
Philosophical Topics, 45(2):33–64.
Rebecca Lee and Maureen Kosse. 2020. The social do- main of understanding: Ethnographically-informed frame semantics of dog whistles. High Desert Lin- guistics Society 14.
Jeffrey B Lewis, Keith Poole, Howard Rosenthal, Adam Boche, Aaron Rudkin, and Luke Sonnet. 2023. Voteview: Congressional roll-call votes database. https://voteview. com/.
Rijul Magu, Kshitij Joshi, and Jiebo Luo. 2017. Detect- ing the hate code on social media. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Web and Social Media, volume 11, pages 608–611.
Rijul Magu and Jiebo Luo. 2018. Determining code words in euphemistic hate speech using word embed- ding networks. In Proceedings of the 2nd workshop on abusive language online (ALW2), pages 93–100.
Tali Mendelberg. 2001. The Race Card: Campaign Strategy, Implicit Messages, and the Norm of Equal- ity. Princeton University Press.
Julia Mendelsohn, Yulia Tsvetkov, and Dan Jurafsky. 2020. A framework for the computational linguistic analysis of dehumanization. Frontiers in artificial intelligence, 3:55.
Stefano Menini, Alessio Palmero Aprosio, and Sara Tonelli. 2021. Abuse is contextual, what about nlp? the role of context in abusive language annotation and detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.14916.
Jamie Moshin. 2018. Hello darkness: Antisemitism and rhetorical silence in the" trump era". Journal of Contemporary Rhetoric, 8.
Moin Nadeem, Anna Bethke, and Siva Reddy. 2021. Stereoset: Measuring stereotypical bias in pretrained language models. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin- guistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 5356–5371.
Nikita Nangia, Clara Vania, Rasika Bhalerao, and Samuel Bowman. 2020. Crows-pairs: A challenge dataset for measuring social biases in masked lan- guage models. In Proceedings of the 2020 Confer- ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1953–1967.
OpenAI. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv.
Joyojeet Pal, Dinsha Mistree, and Tanya Madhani. In Ce- 2018. A friendly neighborhood hindu. DEM Asia 2018: Proceedings of the International Conference for E-Democracy and Open Govern- ment; Japan 2018, pages 97–121. Edition Donau- Universität Krems.
Carla Pérez-Almendros, Luis Espinosa Anke, and Steven Schockaert. 2020. Don’t patronize me! an annotated dataset with patronizing and condescend- ing language towards vulnerable communities. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics, pages 5891–5902.
Keith T Poole and Howard Rosenthal. 1985. A spatial model for legislative roll call analysis. American journal of political science, pages 357–384.
Jing Qian, Mai ElSherief, Elizabeth Belding, and William Yang Wang. 2019. Learning to decipher hate symbols. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.02418.
Robin Queen. 2007. Sociolinguistic horizons: Lan- guage and sexuality. Language and Linguistics Com- pass, 1(4):314–330.
Paul Röttger, Bertie Vidgen, Dong Nguyen, Zeerak Waseem, Helen Margetts, and Janet Pierrehumbert. 2021. Hatecheck: Functional tests for hate speech detection models. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual


Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin- guistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 41–58.
Maarten Sap, Dallas Card, Saadia Gabriel, Yejin Choi, and Noah A Smith. 2019. The risk of racial bias in hate speech detection. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 1668–1678.
Maarten Sap, Saadia Gabriel, Lianhui Qin, Dan Juraf- sky, Noah A Smith, and Yejin Choi. 2020. Social bias frames: Reasoning about social and power im- plications of language. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 5477–5490.
Jennifer Saul. 2018. Dogwhistles, political manipula- tion, and philosophy of language. In Daniel Fogal, Daniel W. Harris, and Matt Moss, editors, New work on speech acts, volume 360, page 84. Oxford Univer- sity Press Oxford.
Paul E Smaldino, Thomas J Flamson, and Richard McEl- reath. 2018. The evolution of covert signaling. Sci- entific reports, 8(1):1–10.
Paul E Smaldino and Matthew A Turner. 2021. Covert signaling is an adaptive communication strategy in diverse populations. Psychological review.
Andrew Ifedapo Thompson and Ethan C Busby. 2021. Defending the dog whistle: The role of justifications in racial messaging. Political Behavior, pages 1–22.
Brian P Tilley et al. 2020. “i am the law and order candidate”: A content analysis of donald trump’s race-baiting dog whistles in the 2016 presidential campaign. Psychology, 11(12):1941.
Tamara van der Does, Mirta Galesic, Zackary Okun Dunivin, and Paul E Smaldino. 2022. Strate- gic identity signaling in heterogeneous networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 119(10):e2117898119.
Rachel Wetts and Robb Willer. 2019. Who is called experimental evidence that by the dog whistle? racial resentment and political ideology condition responses to racially encoded messages. Socius, 5:2378023119866268.
Michael Wiegand, Maja Geulig, and Josef Ruppenhofer. 2021a. Implicitly abusive comparisons–a new dataset and linguistic analysis. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Associ- ation for Computational Linguistics: Main Volume, pages 358–368.
Michael Wiegand, Josef Ruppenhofer, and Elisabeth Eder. 2021b. Implicitly abusive language–what does it actually look like and why are we not getting there? In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computa- tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
pages 576–587. Association for Computational Lin- guistics.
Canwen Xu, Wangchunshu Zhou, Tao Ge, Ke Xu, Julian McAuley, and Furu Wei. 2021. Blow the dog whistle: A chinese dataset for cant understanding with com- mon sense and world knowledge. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chap- ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 2139–2145.
Fan Yang. 2016. Rethinking china’s internet censorship: The practice of recoding and the politics of visibility. New Media & Society, 18(7):1364–1381.
Xuhui Zhou, Hao Zhu, Akhila Yerukola, Thomas David- son, Jena D. Hwang, Swabha Swayamdipta, and Maarten Sap. 2023. Cobra frames: Contextual rea- soning about effects and harms of offensive state- ments. In Findings of ACL.


A Appendix
Category
Count
Register
formal/offline informal/online
193 147
Type
stereotype-based target group label concept (policy) concept (values) persona signal (symbol) stereotype-based descriptor persona signal (self-referential) concept (other) arbitrary target group label persona signal (shared culture) humor/mockery/sarcasm representative (Bogeyman) phonetic-based target group label persona signal (in-group label)
64 41 37 35 34 32 29 23 18 11 10 4 2
Persona
racist transphobic antisemitic white supremacist Islamophobic conservative anti-liberal anti-Latino homophobic anti-vax religious climate change denier anti-Asian anti-LGBTQ liberal xenophobic anti-GMO misogynistic
76 73 73 48 16 8 7 6 6 5 4 4 3 3 3 2 2 1
Table A.1: Distribution of glossary entries across all registers, types, and personae.
A.1 Details for dogwhistle surfacing
We create 51 total request formulations that ask for generic examples of dogwhistles (n=17), dogwhis- tles that target specific social groups (n=25), and dogwhistles that are used by certain personae/in- groups (n=9). For each prompt, we also consider three spelling variations of “dogwhistle”: dogwhis- tle, dog-whistle, and dog whistle. Exact prompt text can be found in our project repository.
To encourage GPT-3 to generate a list, we con- clude all prompts with a newline token followed by “1.”. All prompts were provided to a GPT-3 Instruct model (text-davinci-002) with de-
0.8
genericwhite supremacistracistantisemiticIslamophobictransphobicPersona cued in prompt
0.0
0.6
0.4
0.2
1.0"Precision" of GPT-3 dogwhistle surfacing
Figure A.1: Precision of GPT-3 dogwhistle surfacing by prompt type. Precision was highest for dogwhistles that were commonly surfaced in response to generic prompts, and lowest for dogwhistles that were commonly sur- faced in response to prompts requesting examples of Islamophobic or transphobic dogwhistles.
fault hyperparameters except for max_tokens=256, temperature=0.7, and num_outputs=5 (5 genera- tions per prompt). The resulting texts are strings that take the form of an enumerated list. To ag- gregate and compare surfaced dogwhistles across each text completion, we post-process by: split- ting by newline characters, removing enumeration and other punctuation, converting all outputs to lowercase, lemmatizing each surfaced term with SpaCy, and removing definite articles that precede generated dogwhistles. We then aggregate over all generations to determine how often each dogwhis- tle is surfaced for each in-group.
In calculating precision of dogwhistle surfacing, we mark each of the 154 candidate terms as true positives if they appear in the glossary. Some sur- faced dogwhistles were marked as “correct” if they were closely related to a dogwhistle entry in our glossary, even if the exact term did not appear. Ex- amples include national security, identity politics, the swamp, tax relief, and patriot. However, this is still a conservative estimate because our glossary is not exhaustive. GPT-3 surfaces a number of terms that potentially have dogwhistle usages but were not covered by our glossary, and thus not included in our precision estimates. Examples of these terms include names of Muslim political organizations (Hezbollah, Hamas, Muslim Brotherhood) and Sec- ond Amendment rights. Figure A.1 shows variation in precision of dogwhistle surfacing across prompt types (in-groups and generic prompting).
A.2 Details for identifying covert meaning
Variation across registers We identify varia- tion in GPT-3’s ability to identify dogwhistles’ covert meanings based on prompt features, dog-


Source Albertson (2015)
Henderson and McCready (2018)
Bhat and Klein (2020)
Merriam-Webster
Wikipedia
Definition A dogwhistle is an expression that has different meanings to different audiences. A dogwhistle is a term that sends one message to an outgroup while at the same time sending a second (often taboo, controversial, or inflammatory) message to an ingroup. A dogwhistle is a word or phrase that means one thing to the public at large, but that carry an additional, implicit meaning only recognized by a specific subset of the audience. A dogwhistle is a coded message communicated through words or phrases commonly understood by a particular group of people, but not by others. A dogwhistle is the use of coded or suggestive language in political messaging to garner support from a particular group without provoking opposition.
Table A.2: Definitions of dogwhistles and their sources used for prompting GPT-3. Below are links for the Merriam-Webster and Wikipedia sources: https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/dog-whistle-political-meaning https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dog_whistle_(politics)
0.1
0.0
0.7GPT-3 Identified Covert Meaning (frac. of generations)
No DefinitionNor Secret Cue
Informal Register
Definition& Secret CuePrompt Type
0.2
Only DogwhistleDefinition
0.3
Formal Register
OnlySecret Cue
0.5
0.6
0.4
Figure A.2: Percent of GPT-3 generations that capture dogwhistles’ covert meanings, separated by register and if the prompt includes a definition or secret cue.
Persona Proportion 95% CI
homophobic Islamophobic climate change denier anti-Asian conservative anti-Latino racist anti-vax antisemitic white supremacist anti-liberal transphobic
0.737 0.654 0.595 0.583 0.563 0.560 0.532 0.490 0.462 0.448 0.292 0.229
0.069 0.060 0.106 0.126 0.100 0.107 0.029 0.101 0.029 0.029 0.106 0.024
whistle register, and the interaction between the two. Figure A.2 shows that including the definition in prompts consistently improves GPT-3’s covert meaning identification for both formal and informal dogwhistles. However, including the secret cue has minimal effect for informal dogwhistles, and only leads to substantial improvement for identifying formal dogwhistles’ covert meanings.
Variation across personae There is significant variation in GPT-3’s performance across personae, as can be seen in Table A.3.
Variation across dogwhistle types GPT-3’s per- formance varies widely across dogwhistle types in our taxonomy (§2.1; Fig. 2). GPT-3 has the lowest performance for humor-based and arbitrary target group label dogwhistles, and the highest perfor- mance for representatives (Bogeymen), phonetic- based target group labels, and policies (Table A.4).
Table A.3: Proportion of dogwhistles with covert mean- ings identified by GPT-3 across personae with at least 50 GPT-3 generations. GPT-3 has the lowest recognition of transphobic dogwhistles and the highest recognition of homophobic and Islamophobic dogwhistles.
Dogwhistle Type Proportion 95% CI
concept (humor) arbitrary group label stereotype-based descriptor persona signal (symbol) persona signal (self-referential) persona signal (shared culture) concept (values) stereotype-based group label concept (policy) phonetic-based group label representative (Bogeyman)
0.244 0.261 0.311 0.331 0.444 0.448 0.475 0.497 0.519 0.533 0.618
0.063 0.046 0.060 0.032 0.046 0.054 0.026 0.031 0.036 0.127 0.063
Table A.4: Proportion of dogwhistles with covert mean- ings identified by GPT-3 by the dogwhistle type.


Glossary Example
GPT-4 Response
Term Meaning
The cosmopolitan elite look down on the common affections that once bound this nation together: things like place and national feeling and religious faith. The cosmopolitan agenda has driven both Left and Right. It’s time we ended the cosmopolitan experiment and recovered the promise of the republic.
We have got this tailspin of culture, in our inner cities in particular, of men not working and just generations of men not even thinking about working or learning the value and the culture or work.
The dogwhistle in this message is the term "cosmopolitan elite," which is often used to target a specific group of people, such as urban, educated, and often liberal individuals, without explicitly naming them. It can also be interpreted as an anti-Semitic or anti-immigrant message, as "cosmopolitan" has historically been used to criticize Jewish people and immigrants for their perceived lack of loyalty to their country. The dogwhistle in this message is the reference to "inner cities" and "generations of men not working," which can be interpreted as coded language targeting African Americans or other minority groups living in urban areas, perpetuating stereotypes about laziness and unemployment.
✔
✔
✔
✔
#IStandWithJKRowling because she wrote a series of books that made readers out of millions of children and adolescents. And she has every right to express her opinion on cultural matters. And because she’s right about them.
The dogwhistle in this message is "she’s right about them," which indirectly supports J.K. Rowling’s controversial opinions on gender and transgender issues without explicitly mentioning them.
✘
✔
And together, we will win
Did you see Kyle? He’s about this tall..
The dogwhistle in this message is the use of the colors which are associated with the women’s suffrage movement. This suggests that the message is aimed at garnering support from women or feminists without explicitly stating it. The dogwhistle in this message is "Did you see Kyle? He’s about this tall.." which could be a reference to the white supremacist symbol of the "K" hand sign, where the fingers form the letters "W" and "P" for "white power." The name "Kyle" is sometimes associated with white supremacist groups.
,
✔
✘
✘
✘
Table A.5: Manual proof-of-concept analysis for using GPT-4 to identify dogwhistles in-context. The columns on the right indicate whether GPT-4 correctly identifies the dogwhistle term and its covert meaning, respectively.
None
WikipediaDefinition Source
0.5
Secret cue
0.3
Albertson(2015)
0.0
Henderson&McCready(2018)
Bhat&Klein(2020)
No secret cue
0.1
Merriam-Webster
0.4
0.6GPT-3 Identified Covert Meaning(frac. of generations)
0.2
covert meaning when prompted with no dogwhis- tle definition. Prompting GPT-3 with any of the five dogwhistle definitions greatly improved perfor- mance over no definition provided, but the extent varied, with the Merriam-Webster definition yield- ing the lowest improvement (43.8%) and Wikipedia yielding the highest (54.3%) (Table A.6). The boost in performance by adding the secret cue depends on the specific definition used; the secret cue has a bigger effect when using the Merriam-Webster and Albertson (2015) definitions (Figure A.3).
Figure A.3: Proportion of GPT-3 generations that cor- rectly identify dogwhistles’ covert meanings across prompted dogwhistle definitions and secret cues.
Definition Source Mean 95% CI
None Provided Merriam-Webster Albertson (2015) Bhat and Klein (2020) Henderson and McCready (2018) Wikipedia
0.191 0.438 0.449 0.513 0.515 0.534
0.025 0.031 0.031 0.032 0.032 0.032
Table A.6: Proportion of GPT-3 generations that cor- rectly identify dogwhistles’ covert meanings for each dogwhistle definition provided in prompting.
Variation across dogwhistle definitions Only 19.1% of GPT-3 generations include the correct
Where does GPT-3 perform poorly? Most un- recognized dogwhistles are part of the informal register, especially symbols (e.g. the transphobic spiderweb or cherry emojis). Other unrecognized dogwhistles include “Operation Google” terms (e.g. Skype, Yahoo), more recent terms (e.g. Let’s Go Brandon), and several antisemitic and transphobic dogwhistles whose covert meanings are especially context-dependent (e.g. adult human female, XX, (Wikipedia) early life, fellow white people). Unrec- ognized formal dogwhistles tend to be extremely subtle and nuanced (e.g. Dred Scott as a con- servative anti-abortion dogwhistle) or are highly- conventionalized phrases that may be far more com- monly used without the covert implicature (e.g. the antisemitic dogwhistle poisoning the well).


Severe Toxicity
dogwhistle
0.1
Term Category
0.3
slur
0.2
Identity Attack
0.8Perspective API Score
0.0
Toxicity
0.7
0.6
antisemiticracisttransphobic
antisemiticracisttransphobic
antisemiticracisttransphobic
0.5
0.4
standard
Figure A.4: Toxicity, severe toxicity, and identity-attacking scores from Perspective API preliminary experiment. When slurs or standard group labels are substituted with dogwhistles, sentences are rated as significantly less toxic.
Where does GPT-3 perform well? GPT-3 read- ily identifies Islamophobic dogwhistles (e.g. rad- ical Islam, Barack Hussein Obama), many anti- semitic conspiracy theories (e.g. Khazars, Kalergi Plan, Israel Lobby), some racist dogwhistles whose covert meanings are more widely discussed among the out-group (e.g. inner-city, ghetto, thug, war on drugs, black-on-black crime), some alt-right memes (e.g. Pepe the Frog), and conservative po- litical rhetoric (e.g. balance the budget, judicial activism, job creators).
Template So sick of being around [IDENTITY_P] like you. [IDENTITY_P] are disgusting. You [IDENTITY_P] are all dishonest. [IDENTITY_P] are human garbage. Your [IDENTITY_A] lives are worthless. Never trust a single word said by a [IDENTITY_S]. I will cut their [IDENTITY_A] throats. I would love to see those [IDENTITY_P] suffer. All [IDENTITY_P] should fuck off forever. Of course that dumbass was a [IDENTITY_S]. [IDENTITY_P] think they’re special. I hate them. Isn’t it typical of a [IDENTITY_S] to be that stupid?
A.3 Details for toxicity detection
Table A.7 shows a sample of the 237 hateful sen- tence templates used from HateCheck (Röttger et al., 2021). We used the subset of HateCheck templates labeled as hateful and containing a place- holder for an identity term in either adjectival, sin- gular nominal, or plural nominal form. We filled in these placeholders with either a standard group label, dogwhistle, or slur for three personae: an- tisemitic, racist, and transphobic. Specific terms used can be found in Table A.8.
For all personae and toxicity measures provided by Perspective API, dogwhistles are rated as less toxic than slurs and standard group labels (Figure A.4. Interestingly, except for the N-word, Perspec- tive seems to not recognize the extreme offensive- ness of most slurs, and thus toxicity scores for hateful sentences containing slurs are similar to or lower than scores for the same hateful sentences containing standard group labels.
Table A.7: Sample of template hateful sentences from HateCheck (n=237). We create inputs for Perspective API by replacing identity term placeholders with a stan- dard group label, dogwhistle, or slur in either adjectival (IDENTITY_A), singular nominal (IDENTITY_S), or plural nominal form (IDENTITY_P).
Racist African-American Black inner-city welfare queen thug dindu gangbanger ghetto urban superpredator n****r c**n
Antisemitic Jewish Jew cosmopolitan cosmopolitan elite coastal elite globalist international banker cultural Marxist Hollywood elite Khazar k**e h**b
Transphobic transgender trans AGP autogynephile AAP autoandrophile clownfish troon TIF TIM t****y s*****e
Table A.8: Racist, antisemitic, and transphobic terms used for toxicity analysis. We substitute identity place- holders in HateCheck templates (Röttger et al., 2021) with these terms to create inputs to Perspective API.