SMART Program

The Sports Medicine Assessment of Risk Tendencies (SMART) Protocol is a proactive, cutting-edge approach to providing varsity student-athletes with services they need to remain healthy and educated about their well-being. The goal of the program is to prevent, recognize, refer and respond to any health-related issues that impact the varsity student-athlete population, and allow for better health and performance on and off the field of play.

The Sports Medicine Staff collaborates with members of Health Services, Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) and Student Life to provide a comprehensive and multi-disciplinary educational program for Carnegie Mellon University’s student-athlete population. The educational sessions are made up of 4 topics: Nutrition, Drugs and Alcohol, Mental Health, and Sexual Assault. Speakers provide information about each topic and have open discussions to better engage the varsity student athletes. The SMART program provides information and tools for the varsity student athletes to make educated decisions when it comes to these areas.

Mission

The sports medicine team is committed to treating our varsity student-athletes with a holistic approach. We believe that we must treat the whole person; this is achieved by addressing mental and social factors, in addition to treating the physical symptoms of injuries.

Goal

The SMART program’s goal is to prevent, recognize, refer and respond to potential risk tendencies that varsity student-athletes may experience in a collegiate setting. Topics included but not limited to disordered eating, substance abuse, mental wellness, sexual assault and dating violence prevention.

Team will consist of:

Coordinator of Student-Athlete Wellness Certified Athletic Trainers Team Physicians Director of Student Health Services Student Health Services Nutritionist Health Promotion Specialist Director of CaPS Athletic Director Office of Community Standards and Integrity Office of Title IX Initiatives

"The SMART program helps to introduce teams to the resources available on campus. The seminars show us how we can deal with a wide range of issues from homework and class conflicts to drug and alcohol use, through Carnegie Mellon University’s services for athletes." - Women's Swimming and Diving athlete, Kim Hochstedler CaPS session Drugs and Alcohol session "I think the SMART programs are an essential series of meetings because they inform athletes on potential health risks, both mental and physical, and also challenge us to discuss difficult topics with our teammates." - Women's Basketball player, Lisa Murphy Nutrition session with food samples Nutrition session

Share

Facebook

Twitter

Email

Print