T. Mitamura364681198
Papers that are published on 2023 and have open access are listed below with their titles, years, publication venues, as well as the author lists and abstracts are listed below 
['Language-Agnostic Transformers and Assessing ChatGPT-Based Query Rewriting for Multilingual Document-Grounded QA', '2023', ['Workshop on Document-grounded Dialogue and Conversational Question Answering', 'DialDoc', 'Workshop Doc Dialogue Conversational Quest Answering'], 'The DialDoc 2023 shared task has expanded the document-grounded dialogue task to encompass multiple languages, despite having limited annotated data. This paper assesses the effectiveness of both language-agnostic and language-aware paradigms for multilingual pre-trained transformer models in a bi-encoder-based dense passage retriever (DPR), concluding that the language-agnostic approach is superior. Additionally, the study investigates the impact of query rewriting techniques using large language models, such as ChatGPT, on multilingual, document-grounded question-answering systems. The experiments conducted demonstrate that, for the examples examined, query rewriting does not enhance performance compared to the original queries. This failure is due to topic switching in final dialogue turns and irrelevant topics being considered for query rewriting.', ['Srinivas Gowriraj', 'Soham Dinesh Tiwari', 'Mitali Potnis', 'Srijan Bansal', 'T. Mitamura', 'Eric Nyberg']]
['Hierarchical Event Grounding', '2023', ['AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence', 'National Conference on Artificial Intelligence', 'National Conf Artif Intell', 'AAAI Conf Artif Intell', 'AAAI'], "Event grounding aims at linking mention references in text corpora to events from a knowledge base (KB). Previous work on this task focused primarily on linking to a single KB event, thereby overlooking the hierarchical aspects of events. Events in documents are typically described at various levels of spatio-temporal granularity. These hierarchical relations are utilized in downstream tasks of narrative understanding and schema construction. In this work, we present an extension to the event grounding task that requires tackling hierarchical event structures from the KB. Our proposed task involves linking a mention reference to a set of event labels from a subevent hierarchy in the KB. We propose a retrieval methodology that leverages event hierarchy through an auxiliary hierarchical loss. On an automatically created multilingual dataset from Wikipedia and Wikidata, our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the hierarchical loss against retrieve and re-rank baselines. Furthermore, we demonstrate the systems' ability to aid hierarchical discovery among unseen events. Code is available at https://github.com/JefferyO/Hierarchical-Event-Grounding", ['Jiefu Ou', 'Adithya Pratapa', 'Rishubh Gupta', 'T. Mitamura']]
