Yiming Yang6447104357
Papers that are published on 2023 and have open access are listed below with their titles, years, publication venues, as well as the author lists and abstracts are listed below 
['Accelerating Diffusion-based Combinatorial Optimization Solvers by Progressive Distillation', '2023', ['arXiv.org', 'ArXiv'], 'Graph-based diffusion models have shown promising results in terms of generating high-quality solutions to NP-complete (NPC) combinatorial optimization (CO) problems. However, those models are often inefficient in inference, due to the iterative evaluation nature of the denoising diffusion process. This paper proposes to use progressive distillation to speed up the inference by taking fewer steps (e.g., forecasting two steps ahead within a single step) during the denoising process. Our experimental results show that the progressively distilled model can perform inference 16 times faster with only 0.019% degradation in performance on the TSP-50 dataset.', ['Junwei Huang', 'Zhiqing Sun', 'Yiming Yang']]
['Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes based on genetic algorithms and human-in-the-loop software', '2023', ['Journal of Synchrotron Radiation', 'J Synchrotron Radiat'], 'A highly automatic alignment scheme is proposed to address the pressing challenge in tomographic alignment of future scanning tomography experiments. The results show that the proposed method exhibits excellent sub-pixel alignment accuracy and high time efficiency.', ['Zhen Zhang', 'Xiaoxue Bi', 'Pengcheng Li', 'Chenglong Zhang', 'Yiming Yang', 'Yu Liu', 'Gang Chen', 'Yuhui Dong', 'Gongfa Liu', 'Yi Zhang']]
['High CD8+tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes indicate severe exhaustion and poor prognosis in angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma', '2023', ['Frontiers in Immunology', 'Front Immunol'], 'Background Exhaustion of CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), characterized by the overexpression of immune checkpoints (IC), is a major impediment to anti-tumor immunity. However, the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs in angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma (AITL) remains unclear. Therefore, we aimed to elucidate the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs in AITL and its influence on prognosis. Methods The correlation between CD8+TILs and IC expression in AITL was analyzed using single-cell RNA sequencing (n = 2), flow cytometry (n = 20), and RNA sequencing (n = 20). Biological changes related to CD8+TILs exhaustion at different cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) levels (mean expression levels of CD8A, CD8B, GZMA, GZMB, and PRF1) in AITL were evaluated using RNA sequencing (n = 20) and further validated using the GEO dataset (n = 51). The impact of CD8 protein expression and CTL levels on patient prognosis was analyzed using flow cytometry and RNA sequencing, respectively. Results Our findings demonstrated that the higher the infiltration of CD8+TILs, the higher was the proportion of exhausted CD8+TILs characterized by the overexpression of multiple IC. This was accompanied by extensive exhaustion-related biological changes, which suggested severe exhaustion in CD8+TILs and may be one of the main reasons for the poor prognosis of patients with high CD8+TILs and CTL. Conclusion Our study comprehensively reveals the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs and their potential negative impact on AITL prognosis, which facilitates further mechanistic studies and is valuable for guiding immunotherapy strategies.', ['Qiqi Zhu', 'Yiming Yang', 'Xueqin Deng', 'Ningning Chao', 'Zihang Chen', 'Y. Ye', 'Wenyan Zhang', 'Weiping Liu', 'Sha Zhao']]
['Numerical Investigation of Fatigue Crack Propagation Behaviour of 550E High-Performance Steel', '2023', ['Metals'], 'The fatigue crack propagation behaviour of Q550E high-performance steel (HPS) is studied in this paper. Static tensile testing and fatigue crack propagation testing were carried out, and the results were compared with those of Q235. Finite element models were developed and verified against the experimental results. The impacts of the initial crack angle, crack depth ratio, stress ratio, thickness, and corrosion pitting on the fatigue crack propagation behaviour of the HPS were analysed. The results show that the fatigue life of Q550 was reduced by 18% due to the corrosion pitting, but it did not change the crack propagation path. When the stress intensity factor is higher than a certain value, the fatigue performance of Q235 is better than that of Q550E. The initial crack angle of 52.5° is the critical angle of the crack stress intensity factor. The steel tends to fracture as the crack depth ratio increases, and more attention should be paid to the effective crack length in engineering practice. An increasing stress ratio leads to a smaller stress intensity factor, and the thickness affects the stress intensity factor in the later stage. The crack stress intensity factor around the corrosion pits gradually decreases along the thickness direction, and the crack tips around the corrosion pits tend to reach the yield state initially, accelerating the fatigue fracture of the specimen and ultimately leading to a decrease in fatigue life.', ['Linfa Xiao', 'Heng Lin', 'Yongxiang Wang', 'Yiming Yang', 'Huapeng Chen']]
['Association between albumin-to-globulin ratio and the risk of overall survival in advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients with anlotinib treatment: a retrospective cohort study', '2023', ['BMC Pulmonary Medicine', 'BMC Pulm Med'], '', ['Jinzhan Chen', 'Cong-jun Xie', 'Yiming Yang', 'Shuwen Yang', 'Jin-xiang Huang', 'Feiyang Ye', 'Zhenyang Lin', 'L. Tong', 'Jiaxin Liu']]
['Analysis of Volatile Components in Dried Fruits and Branch Exudates of Schisandra chinensis with Different Fruit Colors Using GC-IMS Technology', '2023', ['Molecules'], 'To investigate the volatile components of Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) Bail (commonly known as northern Schisandra) of different colors and to explore their similarities and differences, to identify the main flavor substances in the volatile components of the branch exudates of northern schisandra, and finally to establish a fingerprint map of the volatile components of the dried fruits and branch exudates of northern Schisandra of different colors, we used GC-IMS technology to analyze the volatile components of the dried fruits and branch exudates of three different colors of northern Schisandra and established a fingerprint spectra. The results showed that a total of 60 different volatile chemical components were identified in the branch exudates and dried fruits of Schisandra. The components of germplasm resources with different fruit colors were significantly different. The ion mobility spectrum and OPLS-DA results showed that white and yellow fruits were more similar compared to red fruits. The volatile components in dried fruits were significantly higher than those in branch exudates. After VIP (variable importance in projection) screening, 41 key volatile substances in dried fruits and 30 key volatile substances in branch exudates were obtained. After screening by odor activity value (OAV), there were 24 volatile components greater than 1 in both dried fruits and branch exudates. The most important contributing volatile substance was 3-methyl-butanal, and the most important contributing volatile substance in white fruit was (E)-2-hexenal.', ['Yiping Yan', 'Wenpeng Lu', 'Taiping Tian', 'Nan Shu', 'Yiming Yang', 'Shutian Fan', 'Xianyan Han', 'Yunhua Ge', 'Peilei Xu']]
['Secreted endogenous macrosomes reduce Aβ burden and ameliorate Alzheimer’s disease', '2023', ['Science Advances', 'Sci Adv'], 'Innovative therapeutic strategies are urgently needed for Alzheimer’s disease (AD) due to the increasing size of the aging population and the lack of effective drug treatment. Here, we report the therapeutic effects of extracellular vesicles (EVs) secreted by microglia, including macrosomes and small EVs, on AD-associated pathology. Macrosomes strongly inhibited β-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation and rescued cells from Aβ misfolding–induced cytotoxicity. Furthermore, macrosome administration reduced Aβ plaques and ameliorated cognitive impairment in mice with AD. In contrast, small EVs slightly promoted Aβ aggregation and did not improve AD pathology. Proteomic analysis of small EVs and macrosomes revealed that macrosomes harbor several important neuroprotective proteins that inhibit Aβ misfolding. In particular, the small integral membrane protein 10–like protein 2B in macrosomes has been shown to inhibit Aβ aggregation. Our observations provide an alternative therapeutic strategy for the treatment of AD over conventional ineffective drug treatments.', ['Cunli Wang', 'Yiming Yang', 'Xiaoyu Zhang', 'Zhenqiang Shi', 'Huiling Gao', 'Manli Zhong', 'Yong-gang Fan', 'Hongyan Zhang', 'Bo Liu', 'Guangyan Qing']]
['DIFUSCO: Graph-based Diffusion Solvers for Combinatorial Optimization', '2023', ['arXiv.org', 'ArXiv'], 'Neural network-based Combinatorial Optimization (CO) methods have shown promising results in solving various NP-complete (NPC) problems without relying on hand-crafted domain knowledge. This paper broadens the current scope of neural solvers for NPC problems by introducing a new graph-based diffusion framework, namely DIFUSCO. Our framework casts NPC problems as discrete {0, 1}-vector optimization problems and leverages graph-based denoising diffusion models to generate high-quality solutions. We investigate two types of diffusion models with Gaussian and Bernoulli noise, respectively, and devise an effective inference schedule to enhance the solution quality. We evaluate our methods on two well-studied NPC combinatorial optimization problems: Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) and Maximal Independent Set (MIS). Experimental results show that DIFUSCO strongly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art neural solvers, improving the performance gap between ground-truth and neural solvers from 1.76% to 0.46% on TSP-500, from 2.46% to 1.17% on TSP-1000, and from 3.19% to 2.58% on TSP10000. For the MIS problem, DIFUSCO outperforms the previous state-of-the-art neural solver on the challenging SATLIB benchmark.', ['Zhiqing Sun', 'Yiming Yang']]
['Balancing Exploration and Exploitation in Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning via Latent Landmark Graphs', '2023', ['IEEE International Joint Conference on Neural Network', 'IJCNN', 'IEEE Int Jt Conf Neural Netw', 'Int Jt Conf Neural Netw', 'International Joint Conference on Neural Network'], 'Goal-Conditioned Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning (GCHRL) is a promising paradigm to address the exploration-exploitation dilemma in reinforcement learning. It decomposes the source task into sub goal conditional subtasks and conducts exploration and exploitation in the subgoal space. The effectiveness of GCHRL heavily relies on sub goal representation functions and sub goal selection strategy. However, existing works often overlook the temporal coherence in GCHRL when learning latent sub goal representations and lack an efficient sub goal selection strategy that balances exploration and exploitation. This paper proposes HIerarchical reinforcement learning via dynamically building Latent Landmark graphs (HILL) to overcome these limitations. HILL learns latent subgoal representations that satisfy temporal coherence using a contrastive representation learning objective. Based on these representations, HILL dynamically builds latent landmark graphs and employs a novelty measure on nodes and a utility measure on edges. Finally, HILL develops a subgoal selection strategy that balances exploration and exploitation by jointly considering both measures. Experimental results demonstrate that HILL outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on continuous control tasks with sparse rewards in sample efficiency and asymptotic performance. Our code is available at https://github.com/papercode2022/HILL.', ['Qingyang Zhang', 'Yiming Yang', 'Jingqing Ruan', 'Xuantang Xiong', 'Dengpeng Xing', 'Bo Xu']]
['Aligning Large Multimodal Models with Factually Augmented RLHF', '2023', ['arXiv.org', 'ArXiv'], 'Large Multimodal Models (LMM) are built across modalities and the misalignment between two modalities can result in"hallucination", generating textual outputs that are not grounded by the multimodal information in context. To address the multimodal misalignment issue, we adapt the Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) from the text domain to the task of vision-language alignment, where human annotators are asked to compare two responses and pinpoint the more hallucinated one, and the vision-language model is trained to maximize the simulated human rewards. We propose a new alignment algorithm called Factually Augmented RLHF that augments the reward model with additional factual information such as image captions and ground-truth multi-choice options, which alleviates the reward hacking phenomenon in RLHF and further improves the performance. We also enhance the GPT-4-generated training data (for vision instruction tuning) with previously available human-written image-text pairs to improve the general capabilities of our model. To evaluate the proposed approach in real-world scenarios, we develop a new evaluation benchmark MMHAL-BENCH with a special focus on penalizing hallucinations. As the first LMM trained with RLHF, our approach achieves remarkable improvement on the LLaVA-Bench dataset with the 94% performance level of the text-only GPT-4 (while previous best methods can only achieve the 87% level), and an improvement by 60% on MMHAL-BENCH over other baselines. We opensource our code, model, data at https://llava-rlhf.github.io.', ['Zhiqing Sun', 'Sheng Shen', 'Shengcao Cao', 'Haotian Liu', 'Chunyuan Li', 'Yikang Shen', 'Chuang Gan', 'Liangyan Gui', 'Yu-Xiong Wang', 'Yiming Yang', 'K. Keutzer', 'Trevor Darrell']]
['An Experimental Study on Secondary Transfer Performances of Prestress after Anchoring Failure of Steel Wire Strands', '2023', ['Metals'], 'To understand the secondary transfer performances of residual prestress after the anchoring failure of end-anchored steel wire strands due to corrosion fracture, six steel wire strand components of post-tensioning prestress were designed and fabricated. One-side fast corrosion was applied to the steel wire strand components using the electrochemical method until anchoring failure was reached. The sphere of influence, stress changes, and the retraction and swelling effect of broken beams after failure were investigated. The influences of factors such as concrete strength, stirrup area, and the length of the component on the secondary transfer length of residual prestress were discussed. Based on the deformation relationship between prestressed steel wire strands and concrete in the stress transfer zone, a stress equation was established and solved through a bond constitutive model. A prediction model of the effective stress transfer length of prestressed steel wire strand after failure was proposed. The results demonstrated that residual prestress can have a secondary transfer after the corrosion fracture of end-anchored steel wire strands, but some effective prestress may be lost. Moreover, the loss of prestress is inversely proportional to concrete compressive strength. When the specimens are relatively short, the prestress loss increases significantly. Concrete strength has significant influences on the length of secondary transfer. The proposed simplified calculation method of the secondary transfer length of residual prestress has a relatively high accuracy, with an average error of 2.9% and a maximum error of 5.2%.', ['Rihua Yang', 'Yiming Yang', 'Xuhui Zhang', 'Xinzhong Wang']]
['MRI Features for Predicting Microvascular Invasion and Postoperative Recurrence in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Without Peritumoral Hypointensity', '2023', ['Journal of Hepatocellular Carcinoma', 'J Hepatocell Carcinoma'], 'Purpose To identify MRI features of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that predict microvascular invasion (MVI) and postoperative intrahepatic recurrence in patients without peritumoral hepatobiliary phase (HBP) hypointensity. Patients and Methods One hundred and thirty patients with HCC who underwent preoperative gadoxetate-enhanced MRI and curative hepatic resection were retrospectively reviewed. Two radiologists reviewed all preoperative MR images and assessed the radiological features of HCCs. The ability of peritumoral HBP hypointensity to identify MVI and intrahepatic recurrence was analyzed. We then assessed the MRI features of HCC that predicted the MVI and intrahepatic recurrence-free survival (RFS) in the subgroup without peritumoral HBP hypointensity. Finally, a two-step flowchart was constructed to assist in clinical decision-making. Results Peritumoral HBP hypointensity (odds ratio, 3.019; 95% confidence interval: 1.071–8.512; P=0.037) was an independent predictor of MVI. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and AUROC of peritumoral HBP hypointensity in predicting MVI were 23.80%, 91.04%, 71.23%, 55.96%, and 0.574, respectively. Intrahepatic RFS was significantly shorter in patients with peritumoral HBP hypointensity (P<0.001). In patients without peritumoral HBP hypointensity, the only significant difference between MVI-positive and MVI-negative HCCs was the presence of a radiological capsule (P=0.038). Satellite nodule was an independent risk factor for intrahepatic RFS (hazard ratio,3.324; 95% CI: 1.733–6.378; P<0.001). The high-risk HCC detection rate was significantly higher when using the two-step flowchart that incorporated peritumoral HBP hypointensity and satellite nodule than when using peritumoral HBP hypointensity alone (P<0.001). Conclusion In patients without peritumoral HBP hypointensity, a radiological capsule is useful for identifying MVI and satellite nodule is an independent risk factor for intrahepatic RFS.', ['Zhiyuan Chen', 'Xiaohuan Li', 'Yu Zhang', 'Yiming Yang', 'Yan Zhang', 'Dongjing Zhou', 'Yu Yang', 'Shuping Zhang', 'Yupin Liu']]
['Impact of local governments’ construction land allocation strategies on innovation-driven development of China', '2023', ['资源科学', 'Resources Science', 'Resour Sci'], '', ['Jian Wang', 'Shangui Peng', 'Yuhao Feng', 'Yiming Yang', 'Qun Wu']]
