ISSN 1600-5775
Received 21 April 2022 Accepted 18 November 2022
Edited by A. Stevenson, Australian Synchrotron, Australia
‡ These authors contributed equally to this work.
Keywords: scanning tomography; rotation-axis alignment; sample alignment; genetic algorithms; human-in-the-loop; computed tomography; X-ray microscopy.
Supporting information: this article has supporting information at journals.iucr.org/s
Published under a CC BY 4.0 licence
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178
research papers
Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes based on genetic algorithms and human-in-the-loop software
Zhen Zhang,a,b‡ Xiaoxue Bi,c‡ Pengcheng Li,c Chenglong Zhang,c Yiming Yang,c Yu Liu,c Gang Chen,c Yuhui Dong,c Gongfa Liua* and Yi Zhangc,b*
aNational Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230029, People’s Republic of China, bUniversity of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, People’s Republic of China, and cBeijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Institute of High Energy Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, People’s Republic of China. *Correspondence e-mail: gfliu@ustc.edu.cn, zhangyi88@ihep.ac.cn
Tomography imaging methods at synchrotron light sources keep evolving, pushing multi-modal characterization capabilities at high spatial and temporal resolutions. To achieve this goal, small probe size and multi-dimensional scanning schemes are utilized more often in the beamlines, leading to rising complexities and challenges in the experimental setup process. To avoid spending a signiﬁcant amount of human effort and beam time on aligning the X-ray probe, sample and detector for data acquisition, most attention has been drawn to realigning the systems at the data processing stages. However, post- processing cannot correct everything, and is not time efﬁcient. Here we present automatic alignment schemes of the rotational axis and sample pre- and during the data acquisition process using a software approach which combines the advantages of genetic algorithms and human intelligence. Our approach shows excellent sub-pixel alignment efﬁciency for both tasks in a short time, and therefore holds great potential for application in the data acquisition systems of future scanning tomography experiments.
1. Introduction
In order to image a larger sample volume while retaining high spatial resolution, scanning tomography methods are becoming increasingly popular (Rawson et al., 2020; Sakdi- nawat & Attwood, 2010; Withers et al., 2021; Withers, 2007) at synchrotrons. Scanning tomography experiments usually involve multi-dimensional scans across the sample coupled with multimodal characterizations using X-ray beams with seek to incorporate various small synchrotron techniques like X-ray ﬂuorescence (XRF), X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray absorption near-edge struc- ture (XANES), ptychography, etc. in scanning tomography experiments to correlate the local chemical, phase, strain, oxidation states and other functional properties with the structure of advanced materials (Liu et al., 2021; Zhao et al., 2018; Nguyen et al., 2021; Vojtova´ et al., 2019; Kodama et al., 2021; Mu¨ ller et al., 2021), hence providing a deeper under- standing of structure–function relationships. For experiments carried out in micro- or nanoprobe beamlines, the amount of time necessary to collect a full dataset composed of hundreds of thousands of scan points is quite signiﬁcant (Sasov, 2004). Therefore, the majority of the experiments performed at current third-generation light sources are limited to static characterization. At present, the main reason for the long scan times is the relatively low beam intensities. While diffraction-limited storage rings will bring game-changing
spot
sizes. Scientists
https://doi.org/10.1107/S1600577522011067 169


research papers
brilliant sources to speed up the acquisition process and potentially meet the demand of dynamic or operando studies, the inconvenience of achieving a ﬁne alignment between the X-ray probe and the examined sample (Fig. 1) may also be a major limiting factor in accelerating the whole acquisition process.
Generally, a 2D raster scan will be carried out at each projection and then the process is identical to the full-ﬁeld imaging methods with the sample stage rotating to different angles. To satisfy the tomography reconstruction require- ments, the raster scan region needs to be capable of covering the sample area at all projections. While for full-ﬁeld tomo- graphy the sample is not necessarily required to be precisely aligned to the center of the ﬁeld of view, in scanning tomo- graphy experiments a bad alignment of the sample with the rotation center means an enlarged area needs to be scanned at each projection, thereby causing unnecessary time loss. Unlike the straightforward alignment process directly from projection images in full-ﬁeld imaging (Ma et al., 2018), the alignment of the sample with respect to the rotation center in scanning tomography is usually far more complicated. Currently scientists are mainly relying on in-line microscopes to conduct the alignment coarse alignment at beamlines. However, accuracy using microscopes will not meet future scanning
tomography experimental demands as the probe size reaches the nanometer range. A precise alignment should be based on the functional projection images acquired from real-time analysis of XRF, XRD and ptychography signals etc. Due to the complex alignment procedure and poor resolution of the composed projection image, a more automated and intelligent alignment method needs to be developed to cater to the ﬁne alignment requirements of future scanning tomography experiments.
Although adding a layer of complexity, the obtained XRF, XRD and ptychography data from each projection can be automatically processed in real time using custom processing pipelines. The remaining alignment process of the scanning tomography will be based on 2D projection images, which shares great similarity with full-ﬁeld tomography. Hence, alignment methods developed for full-ﬁeld tomography can also be applied to scanning tomography experiments. In general, the tomographic alignment includes rotation-axis alignment and sample alignment with respect to the center of rotation (CoR) (Dong et al., 2013; Donath et al., 2006; Yu et al., 2019; Yang et al., 2015). For both scanning and full-ﬁeld tomography, the rotation axis needs to be precisely aligned to be perpendicular to the incoming beam direction and parallel to the detector plane. Jun & Yoon (2017) proposed a method
Figure 1 A larger scanning area is required due to misalignment (a) of the scanning tomography setup compared with perfectly aligned (b) systems.
170 Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178


research papers
to correct the tilt error of the rotation axis using the center of attenuation and its sinograms. Cheng et al. (2018) mini- mized the total deviation of the reconstructed image to correct problems such as errors resulting from incorrectly determined rotational axes and projection angles. However, comparing with other factors, the quality degradation of the recon- structed structure due to the misalignment of the rotation axis will be more difﬁcult to compensate by reconstruction algo- rithms. Therefore, the rotation axis should be well aligned pre- acquisition. Once the rotation axis alignment is completed, the sample alignment procedures are ready to be initiated. In reality, the sample alignments with respect to the CoR are usually done at the post-acquisition stage. A wide range of post-acquisition sample alignment schemes based on image processing techniques (McEnvoy, 2007; Matula et al., 2003; Amat et al., 2008; Cheng et al., 2014; Pan et al., 2012; Robertson et al., 2015; Sorzano et al., 2020) or iterative reconstruction-reprojection (Nassi et al., 1982; Ollinger, 1990; Wang et al., 2000; Li et al., 2020) methods have been developed and have shown great effects. In particular, Vo et al. (2014) proposed a sample alignment scheme based on Fourier space sinograms. Yang et al. (2017) used convolutional neural networks to reduce the horizontal drift problem caused by aspects such as instrument instability.
All the above methods show well aligned results in their respective application scenarios; however, most of them focus on the post-processing stage of tomography experiments, and these alignment algorithms cannot correct everything and are not time efﬁcient. Therefore, in contrast to the above align- ment that concentrate on the post-acquisition process, we report here an alignment method in the pre- acquisition process that aligns the rotation axis ﬁrst and then the sample. The method divides the workﬂow of rotational- axis alignment and sample alignment into two steps – coarse alignment and ﬁne alignment – and provides a graphical user interface (GUI) and manual intervention to assist the align- ment procedure. In particular, the algorithm used for coarse alignment is based on a physical model and the process is usually very fast. To reach a more accurate alignment, a genetic algorithm (GA) (Kihm & Lyons, 1996) is introduced which can optimize the motor position in the global scope to realize an automatic alignment. The GA is a global optimi- zation algorithm which ensures the ﬁnal results are globally optimized. Moreover, for a subjective function to be optimized by the GA, its gradient information and mathematical model are not required. The only necessary information is the output corresponding to a certain input. These facts lead to the conclusion that a GA-based optimization can be performed at any sample without parameter modiﬁcation. Virtual tomography experiments were conducted for the algorithm veriﬁcation and software validation; the results demonstrate that our method can achieve sub-pixel alignment accuracy. Human intervention through the designed GUI has also shown signiﬁcant importance in facilitating the alignment process. Together, our method has demonstrated great appli- cation potential for enhancing the data acquisition efﬁciency of future synchrotron scanning tomography experiments.
schemes
2. Methods
2.1. Virtual tomography experiment
The in-house-developed Virtual Beamline Studio (VBS) provides a test bed for veriﬁcation of the proposed algorithms in the paper. VBS was developed to simulate the future multi- modal and high-data-throughput experiments performed at the next-generation beamlines of the High Energy Photon Source (HEPS). The user can employ a certain combination of virtual detectors and motors to perform a virtual experiment in Mamba (Liu et al., 2022). The simulated detectors and motors share the sample protocols with real devices in terms of control and data communication in the data acquisition software framework (Mamba) developed for HEPS. The only difference is, instead of reading data from chips, the virtual detectors read images which are stored in memory or gener- ated from third-party simulation programs. The virtual experiment enables users to test and implement algorithms and software applications without a real experimental setup. To simulate tomography experiments, we developed a simu- lation model that generates projection images using recon- structed sample slices with deﬁned measurement geometry (sample, beam and detector). In the procedure, this module performs rotation and integration operations on all recon- structed sample slices, and converts three-dimensional sample slices into a series of two-dimensional sample projection images according to the Radon transformation. The samples were simulated using the tomography dataset from Amat et al. (2008) and a XANES tomography dataset collected from Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource (SSRL). For the ﬁrst set of walnut data, we selected the Feldkamp–Davis– Kress (FDK) reconstruction data of the ﬁrst set of walnuts as the primary sample. This is a collection of computed tomo- graphy slices that are highly aligned with no artifacts present and well suitable for algorithm development and evaluation for other tasks. Furthermore, the second dataset is the one that we would face in our actual scanning tomography experiments which is of great help for the validation of our algorithm. The simulated motors read the predeﬁned trajectories to mimic the scans in real experiments.
2.2. Rotation-axis alignment
During synchrotron experiments the rotation axis usually only needs to be realigned once for each beam time, and therefore users rarely use real samples to align the rotation axis but instead tend to use a specialized calibration sample with sharp features. For convenience, we use the walnut sample for both rotation-axis alignment and sample alignment tests. To facilitate the alignment of the rotation axis with respect to the detector, we randomly added a strong absorbing particle on the surface of the walnut sample. As shown in Fig. 2, the position of the sample can be represented by a 3D coordinate system, and the tilt of the rotation axis can be decomposed as a superposition of two orthogonal vectors Zt and Xt . For the effect caused by these two vectors ((cid:2)Zt and (cid:2)Xt), we can align the rotation axis by adjusting motor (cid:3) and motor (cid:4). It is necessary to note that in a real rotation-axis
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178
Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes 171


research papers
Figure 2 (a) Sample positioning stage. Motor x and motor z control the movement of the sample, the rotation motor controls the rotation of the sample, and motor (cid:3) and motor (cid:4) control the tilt of the rotation axis. (b) Rotary-axis tilt model. The tilt angle of the axis of rotation can be split into the superposition of two orthogonal vectors. (c) Physical model of the rotary axis coarse alignment. The adjustment angle of the axis of rotation is roughly calculated from the coordinates of the four feature points.
alignment scenario, the staff usually use a needle or other standard sample with one strong absorbing particle. There- fore, temporarily, here we only extract and track one strong absorbing particle of the walnut sample, which can be easily ﬁltered out by setting a higher grayscale threshold to obtain its motion trajectory. Ideally, the trajectory of the particle will form a straight line after one turn of rotation without any tilt ((cid:2)Xt = 0, (cid:2)Zt = 0). As shown in Fig. 3, when (cid:2)Xt = 0 and (cid:2)Zt 6¼ 0, the trajectory of the particle turns out to be an ellipse. When 6¼ 0 and (cid:2)Zt = 0, the trajectory of the particle forms a (cid:2)Xt straight line at a certain angle to the horizontal direction, with
its two endpoints collected from projection angles 90(cid:3) and 270(cid:3). When (cid:2)Xt 6¼ 0 and (cid:2)Zt 6¼ 0, the trajectory of the particle will be a tilted ellipse, from which (cid:2)Xt and (cid:2)Zt can be calculated as
(cid:2)Xt ¼ arctan
(cid:2)
y1 (cid:4) y2 x1 (cid:4) x2
(cid:3) 180 (cid:5)
;
(cid:2)Zt ¼ arcsin
(
(cid:4) ð ð
x3 (cid:4) x4 x1 (cid:4) x2
Þ2 þ y3 (cid:4) y4 ð Þ2 þ y1 (cid:4) y2 ð
Þ2 Þ2
(cid:5)1=2
)
180 (cid:5)
;
Figure 3 Particle trajectories under different rotation-axis misalignment situations.
172 Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178
ð1Þ
ð2Þ


research papers
where x1, x2, x3 and x4 are the horizontal coordinate values of P1, P2, P3 and P4, and y1, y2, y3 and y4 are the vertical coor- dinates values of P1, P2, P3 and P4, respectively. P1 and P2 are the vertices of the major axis of the ellipse ﬁtted to the trajectory of the feature particle, while P3 and P4 are the two points on the ellipse with the same x-coordinate of the midpoint of the minor axis.
A two-step alignment procedure is introduced for the rotation-axis alignment: coarse alignment and ﬁne alignment, as shown in Fig. 4. For the coarse alignment, the tilt angles of motor (cid:3) and motor (cid:4) are corrected by equations (1) and (2). For the ﬁne alignment of the rotation axis based on the GA, a series of individuals of random rotation-axis positions (motor (cid:3) and motor (cid:4)) are generated to form the initial population around the coarsely aligned rotation-axis position. The population ﬁtness is assessed according to the trajectory characteristics of the strong absorbing particle. After several rounds of selection, crossover and mutation, the population ﬁnally reaches convergence and obtains the optimum adjust- ment angles. To avoid repetition in data acquisition, the trajectory information of new individuals in the previous generations will be stored for the new iteration. Typically, we
set two adjustment accuracy modes to accommodate different adjustment needs: (a) 15 population iterations for a popula- tion of 20 individuals and (b) 15 population iterations for a population of 30 individuals. The number of population iterations and individuals are application-scenario-dependent input parameters for the alignment program. The program can also be terminated early by human intervention if the popu- lation has converged.
2.3. Sample alignment
To simulate the projection images for a misaligned sample with respect to the rotation axis, an offset was applied on the sample. In the virtual experiment, this offset is a combination of the offsets of the two sample motors (motor x and motor z), which we denote as offset_ x and offset_ z. The physical model for the coarse alignment is shown in Fig. S1 of the supporting information. During the coarse alignment of the sample, ﬁrstly we performed one coarse tomography scan and checked whether the sample was within the ﬁeld of view (FoV) of the detector for all projections. If the sample was falling out of the FoV at certain projections, another scan was performed from
Figure 4 (a) The process of ﬁne alignment of the rotation axis. Genetic-algorithm-based selection, crossover, mutation and inheritance processes for rotating-axis individuals. (b) Framework design of the rotation alignment software. The blue color indicates the rotation alignment algorithm and its associated functional modules, and the orange color indicates the GUI module.
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178
Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes 173


research papers
0(cid:3) to 180(cid:3) to ﬁnd the projection angle !1 where the sample was completely rotated back into the FoV and the angle !2 where the center of the sample reached the center of the detector. After that, we obtained the distance between the sample center and the detector center at the !1 angle and denoted this distance as distance_ !1. Among them, the offsets of the two motors can be expressed as
Here, according to the relationship of the offset and the reference angles, we can obtain offset_ x and offset_ z by equations (5) and (6),
offset x ’
distance !1 sinð!1Þ (cid:4) cosð!1Þ tanð!2Þ
;
offset z ’ (cid:4)offset x tanð!2Þ:
tan !2ð
Þ ’ (cid:4)
offset x offset z
:
Meanwhile, distance_ !1 can be expressed as the superposition of two offsets at angle !1,
distance !1 ¼ offset x sinð!1Þ þ offset z cosð!1Þ:
ð3Þ
ð4Þ
The sample was then moved according to the calculated offset_ x and offset_ z for the coarse alignment. Following the coarse alignment, a ﬁne alignment process triggered by genetic algorithm is required for further alignment work as shown in Fig. 5. Based on genetic algorithm, we use movement values of the two motors as the gene and the sum of the difference between the center of the sample at 90(cid:3) and 270(cid:3) and the difference between the center of the sample at 0(cid:3) and 180(cid:3) as
Figure 5 (a) The process of ﬁne sample alignment. (b) Framework design of the sample alignment software. The blue color indicates the sample alignment algorithm and its associated functional modules, and the orange color indicates the GUI module.
174 Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178
ð5Þ
ð6Þ


research papers
the ﬁtness evaluation metric. After the initial population has evolved through selection, crossover and mutation, the indi- vidual eventually converges, and that individual is the optimal distance to move for sample precision alignment. To speed up the program, the images acquired from motor positions which have been generated in the previous generations will be reused in the new iteration. In practice, the current position is not exactly accurate due to sample center calculations, movement errors, etc.
the rotation axis ﬁnally converged to close to 0(cid:3). In theoretical terms, the rotation axis has been adjusted to an ideal position for subsequent sample alignment. In practice, the algorithm should be applicable for samples with arbitrary characteristic points such as gold particles, needle tips, etc. and the efﬁciency will also be limited by the accuracy of the motors and the pixel size of the detector. For a ﬁne rotation-axis alignment, only 42 s was needed for the individuals within the population to be converged if the acquisition time for the projection images is not accounted for.
2.4. User interaction design
As shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b), the framework design of the software is mainly composed of two parts – the GUI and the backend server. Among them, the GUI has been devel- oped based on PyQt and provides a number of advanced interfaces that enable users to monitor the alignment status and deﬁne parameters for the algorithms. The backend server integrates the coarse alignment module, the ﬁne alignment module and some basic motion control modules. The GUI and backend server communicate through the ZeroMQ protocol.
3. Results
In a real scenario, the initial position of the gold particle can be very close to the rotation axis, which may raise potential difﬁculty for the algorithm. Therefore, to verify the robustness of the algorithm, we initialized a series of gold particles at different positions and compared their alignment results, as demonstrated in Fig. S2 of the supporting information. The effect of the alignment of the rotation axis is gradually affected as the distance between the gold particle and the rotation axis decreases. When the initial position was ahead of [0, 6, 0], the distance between the gold particle and the rota- tion axis was about two pixels at this time, and the rotation axis could be better calibrated. The orthogonal tilt angles of the rotation axis ﬁnally converged to close to 0(cid:3) after ﬁne alignment.
3.1. Rotation-axis alignment
Currently, a large number of tomography beamlines rely on using calibration samples with sharp edges or gold particles to accomplish the rotation-axis alignment. Here we applied the rotation-axis alignment algorithm to a simulated rotational model with a gold particle. For demonstration, the rotation axis was initially deﬁned as parallel to the vector with (cid:2)Zt set to be 14.01(cid:3) and (cid:2)Xt set to be 14.01(cid:3), and the initial coordinate of the gold particle was set to [150, 81, 138]. In addition, a random noise error was added to the rotation axis to more realistically simulate the movement of the gold particle. The results of the complete axis alignment are shown in Figs. 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c). In the initial state, there were signiﬁcant offsets in the movement trajectory of a gold particle at rotation angles of 0, 90, 180 and 270. After a coarse alignment of the rotation axis, a reduction in the offset was clearly observed at the four angles mentioned above. The rotational trajectory of the gold particle also transformed from a larger ellipse to a smaller ellipse with (cid:2)Zt reduced to 1.43(cid:3). Then, after a ﬁne alignment based on genetic algorithms, with the number of individuals within the population set at 20, with 48 genes per individual and 15 generations of evolution, both orthogonal tilt angles of
3.2. Sample alignment
For the sample alignment, a coarse alignment procedure is necessary to move the sample completely into the FoV for all projections when the sample is too far away from the CoR. To test the coarse alignment module, we used the walnut dataset as the data source and set large offsets of the sample (159 and 104 pixels in the x and z directions, respectively) with respect to the CoR as the initial position. As shown in the projection images [Fig. 7(a) to 7(h)], the sample falls out of the FoV of the detector in certain projections. After the coarse alignment, it can be observed that the sample had been moved all the way into the imaging area of the detector. Until now there was still a two-pixels offset in the x direction and a three-pixels offset in the z direction for the following ﬁne alignment. With the number of individuals within the population set to be 20, the offset was reduced to 0.51 (x direction) and 0.73 (z direction) pixel after ﬁne alignment. The comparative results of the experiments are shown in Figs. 7(i) and 7( j). The time consumption of the ﬁne alignment was only 50 s when not considering the simulation time to generate the projection
Figure 6 (a) Initial trajectory with tilted rotation axis. (b) Trajectory after coarse alignment. (c) Trajectory after ﬁne alignment.
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178
Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes 175


research papers
Figure 7 (a)–(d) Projection images of the sample before alignment. (e)–(h) Projection images after coarse alignment. (i)–( j) Sample offset in the x and z directions after each generation when the number of individuals in the population is set to 20 during the ﬁne alignment procedure.
images calculation, which in real experiments will be the sample rotation and image acquisition time. The results show that a very high accuracy alignment was achieved for the walnut sample at a short time cost.
Fig. 8(b), at the end of the coarse alignment, the samples had an offset_ x of 2.5 pixels and an offset_ z of 3 pixels. At the end of the ﬁne alignment [Fig. 8(c)], offset_ x = 0.43 pixel and offset_ z = 0.14 pixel, showing a better alignment.
Finally, to test the alignment efﬁcacy of the scanning tomography experiment, we utilized poor-resolution data collected from a XANES experiment at SSRL. We set the initial offset_ x to 178 pixels and offset_ z to 117.5 pixels [Fig. 8(a)] and the alignment accuracy to the ﬁrst level, and the entire alignment process took approximately 48 s. As shown in
3.3. Human-in-the-loop control software
An interactive GUI was developed to facilitate the align- ment procedure. As shown in Fig. 9, the GUI not only provides visualization of the streaming projection images,
Figure 8 Algorithms validation using a XANES dataset.
176 Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178


research papers
aligned with sub-pixel accuracy when the effects of motor resolution and detector stability are excluded. The algorithms in each alignment step were encapsulated into a highly modular-designed software framework, which offers the possibility of future algorithm and functional upgrades. Looking to the future, we will also use a software approach to address the problems caused by the vibration and drift of the sample with respect to the beam which adds extra complexity for the alignment of the system. Together with the current work, a systematic software solution for the automation of tomographic alignment will be formed and will ﬁnd wide applications in the data acquisition and online processing workﬂow of various synchrotron experiments.
Figure 9 GUI of the alignment software.
The code for sample alignment is available from https:// github.com/sampleAlign/sampleAlignment/tree/main/Code, and a GUI screen recording video of the sample alignment process can be obtained from https://github.com/sampleAlign/ sampleAlignment/tree/main/GUI_Video.
current acquisition parameters, alignment progress informa- tion, etc. but also components for the users to set and change the alignment parameters. At the moment, the displacement on the projection images can be directly translated into movements of the motors in virtual experiments. For future synchrotron experiments, a calibration between the pixel distance and motor movement needs to be performed to use the module. In addition, users can also intervene in the running alignment process simply by setting new values for the motors and overtake the algorithms, which can be more efﬁ- cient when the samples are far away from the rotation center. A mask module was introduced into the GUI to give the user an option to mask regions with high levels of impurities or where other samples may jump into the FoV and cause disruption. At the moment, the mask region is deﬁned by user experience and needs further development to be more automatic.
Acknowledgements
YZ and GFL initiated and supervised the whole project. ZZ developed all the algorithms described in the paper. XXB designed the virtual experiment for the algorithm veriﬁcation, YL, PCL, CLZ and YMY helped to develop the experiment software system, YHD and GC helped with project design and reﬁned the manuscript. All authors have given approval to the ﬁnal version of the manuscript.
Funding information
The following funding is acknowledged: Chinese Academy of Sciences (award No. XDB37000000; award No. WX2021PY- 0106); National Science Foundation for Young Scientists of China (grant No. 12005253); Hefei Science Center, Chinese (award No. 2019HSC-KPRD003); Academy of Sciences Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute of High Energy Physics (award No. E25455U210).
4. Conclusion
for scanning tomography experiments, we In conclusion, present here automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes based on genetic algorithms and human-in-the-loop software. These schemes are dedicated to addressing the needs to improve the sample alignment efﬁciency and automation in scanning tomography experiments and the necessary rotation- axis alignment prior to it. In terms of principle, our schemes divide each alignment job into two processes: coarse align- ment and ﬁne alignment. Coarse alignment is used for error correction on larger scales, while ﬁne alignment allows for high-precision adjustments. This ensures accuracy while signiﬁcantly reducing the time consumption on the overall process. Meanwhile, for the complex experimental conditions of scanning X-ray tomography, we have designed a GUI to supplement the algorithm, which provides sample detection, manual and sample monitoring functional modules as part of the coarse alignment workﬂow. Finally, the performance of our schemes was tested by virtual experi- ments; the misaligned rotation axis and sample were well
adjustment
References
Amat, F., Moussavi, F., Comolli, L. R., Elidan, G., Downing, K. H. &
Horowitz, M. (2008). J. Struct. Biol. 161, 260–275.
Cheng, C. C., Chien, C. C., Chen, H. H., Hwu, Y. & Ching, Y. T.
(2014). PLoS One, 9, e84675.
Cheng, C. C., Ching, Y. T., Ko, P. H. & Hwu, Y. (2018). Sci. Rep. 8,
9884.
Di Dong,, Shouping Zhu,, Chenghu Qin,, Kumar, V., Stein, J. V., Oehler, S., Savakis, C., Jie Tian, & Ripoll, J. (2013). IEEE J. Biomed. Heal. Inf. 17, 198–204.
Donath, T., Beckmann, F. & Schreyer, A. (2006). J. Opt. Soc. Am. A,
23, 1048–1057.
Jun, K. & Yoon, S. (2017). Sci. Rep. 7, 41218. Kihm, K. D. & Lyons, D. P. (1996). Opt. Lett. 21, 1327–1329. Kodama, M., Ohashi, A., Adachi, H., Miyuki, T., Takeuchi, A., Yasutake, M., Uesugi, K., Kaburagi, T. & Hirai, S. (2021). J. Power Sources Adv. 8, 100048.
Li, L., Han, R., Zhang, Z., Guo, T., Liu, Z. & Zhang, F. (2020). BMC
Bioinformatics, 21, 202.
Liu, X., Ronne, A., Yu, L.-C., Liu, Y., Ge, M., Lin, C.-H., Layne, B., Halstenberg, P., Maltsev, D. S., Ivanov, A. S., Antonelli, S., Dai, S.,
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178
Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes 177


research papers
Lee, W. K., Mahurin, S. M., Frenkel, A. I., Wishart, J. F., Xiao, X. & Chen-Wiegart, Y. K. (2021). Nat. Commun. 12, 3441.
Liu, Y., Geng, Y.-D., Bi, X.-X., Li, X., Tao, Y., Cao, J.-S., Dong, Y.-H.
& Zhang, Y. (2022). J. Synchrotron Rad. 29, 664–669.
Ma, L., Guo, Z., Zhang, X., Xu, Z., Liu, H., Zhang, L., Wang, Y. & Tai,
Sakdinawat, A. & Attwood, D. (2010). Nat. Photon. 4, 840–848. Sasov, A. (2004). Proc. SPIE, 5535, 201–211. Sorzano, C. O. S., de Isidro-Go´ mez, F., Ferna´ ndez-Gime´ nez, E., Herreros, D., Marco, S., Carazo, J. M. & Messaoudi, C. (2020). J. Struct. Biol. X, 4, 100037.
R. (2018). Microsc. Microanal. 24, 124–125.
Vo, N. T., Drakopoulos, M., Atwood, R. C. & Reinhard, C. (2014).
Matula, P., Kozubek, M., Staier, F. & Hausmann, M. (2003). J.
Microsc. 209, 126–142.
McEnvoy, F. J. (2007). Vet. Radiol. Ultrasound, 48, 528–534. Mu¨ ller, D., Graetz, J., Balles, A., Stier, S., Hanke, R. & Fella, C.
Opt. Express, 22, 19078–19086.
Vojtova´ , L., Zikmund, T., Pavlinˇ a´ kova´ , V., Sˇ alplachta, J., Kalasova´ , D., Prosecka´ , E., Brtnı´kova´ , J., Zˇ ı´dek, J., Pavlinˇ a´ k, D. & Kaiser, J. (2019). J. Microsc. 273, 169–177.
(2021). arXiv: 2102.06644.
Nassi, M., Brody, W. R., Medoff, B. P. & Macovski, A. (1982). IEEE
Trans. Biomed. Eng. BME-29, 333–341.
Nguyen, T. T., Villanova, J., Su, Z., Tucoulou, R., Fleutot, B., Delobel, B., Delacourt, C. & Demortie` re, A. (2021). Adv. Energy Mater. 11, 2003529.
Wang, G., Frei, T. & Vannier, M. W. (2000). Acad. Radiol. 7, 607–614. Withers, P. J. (2007). Mater. Today, 10, 26–34. Withers, P. J., Bouman, C., Carmignato, S., Cnudde, V., Grimaldi, D., Hagen, C. K., Maire, E., Manley, M., Du Plessis, A. & Stock, S. R. (2021). Nat. Rev. Methods Primers, 1, 18.
Yang, X., De Carlo, F., Phatak, C. & Gu¨ rsoy, D. (2017). J. Synchrotron
Ollinger, J. M. (1990). IEEE Trans. Med. Imaging, 9, 94–98. Pan, Y., De Carlo, F. & Xiao, X. (2012). Proc. SPIE, 8313, 831328. Rawson, S. D., Maksimcuka, J., Withers, P. J. & Cartmell, S. H. (2020).
BMC Biol. 18, 21.
Rad. 24, 469–475.
Yang, Y., Yang, F., Hingerl, F. F., Xiao, X., Liu, Y., Wu, Z., Benson, S. M., Toney, M. F., Andrews, J. C. & Pianetta, P. (2015). J. Synchrotron Rad. 22, 452–457.
Robertson, W. D., Porto, L. R., Ip, C. J. X., Nantel, M. K. T., Tellkamp, F., Lu, Y. & Dwayne Miller, R. J. (2015). Rev. Sci. Instrum. 86, 086105.
Yu, X., Yin, W., Lan, Y. & Liu, Z. (2019). J. Biomed. Eng. 36, 664–669. Zhao, C., Wada, T., De Andrade, V., Gu¨ rsoy, D., Kato, H. & Chen-
Wiegart, Y. K. (2018). Nano Energy, 52, 381–390.
178 Zhen Zhang et al.
(cid:2) Automatic synchrotron tomographic alignment schemes
J. Synchrotron Rad. (2023). 30, 169–178