About
     -  Carnegie Mellon University Athletics Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Search Composite Search Sports Men's Sports Basketball Basketball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Cross Country Cross Country Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Football Football Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Golf Golf Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Soccer Soccer Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Swimming & Diving Swimming & Diving Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Tennis Tennis Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Track & Field Track & Field Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Women's Sports Basketball Basketball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Cross Country Cross Country Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Golf Golf Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Soccer Soccer Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Softball Softball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Swimming & Diving Swimming & Diving Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Tennis Tennis Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Track & Field Track & Field Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Volleyball Volleyball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Inside Athletics Annual Report Camps/Clinics Cheerleading Diversity and Inclusion General News Green Practices Hall of Fame Hazing Prevention Kiltie Band Mission Statement Sports Performance Staff Directory Strategic Plan Student-Athlete Handbook Tartan Athletics Club Tartan Facts Student Experience The Tartan Experience ADPI Student-Athlete Group Black and Latinx Athlete Coalition Queer Athlete and Ally Collective Mentoring Program Plaidvocates SMART Program Student-Athlete Advisory Council Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow Add Your Info to Our Recruiting Database Facilities CMU Soccer Field Facility Hours Facility Reservations Game Day at Carnegie Mellon Gesling Stadium Highmark Center for Health, Wellness and Athletics Jared L. Cohon University Center Swimming & Diving Pool Tennis Courts Tepper Fitness Center Varsity Weight Room Visiting Team Brochure Wiegand Gym Recreation Giving Shop Inside Athletics About Scotty The Scottish terrier has long been a familiar figure around Carnegie Mellon's campus. For years students have suited up in an unofficial Scottish terrier costume to excite the fans at athletic events. But the relationship between the Scottish terrier breed and Carnegie Mellon far precedes anybody doing somersaults in a dog costume. Andrew Carnegie, founder of the university, kept a Scottish terrier as his pet. Scotty's road from popular icon to official mascot of the university began in 2006. Carnegie Mellon formed a Mascot Identity Task Force in November 2006, which consisted of students, faculty, staff and alumni. The Task Force was co-chaired by Director of Athletics Susan Bassett and Dean of Student Affairs Jennifer Church. The mascot selection process included a series of surveys and a university Town Hall meeting. Nearly 78 percent of 2,370 students surveyed in February 2007 voted for the Scottish terrier, and approximately 25 percent of 400 alumni surveyed thought the Scottish terrier was already the mascot. In the spring, the Task Force partnered with SME Branding — a firm with more than 17 years of experience creating mascots for professional sports teams and universities — to develop the graphics for the mascot. During October, students and alumni reviewed potential mascot images in focus groups. Carnegie Mellon's official mascot debuted at the Nov. 10, 2007 home football game. The graphic features a profile of a distinguished, bold Scottish terrier sporting a plaid scarf around his neck. The dog is contained in a shield, representing Carnegie Mellon's Scottish heritage. The Task Force then partnered with a mascot costume company to design our Scottish terrier in the winter of 2007. The official Scotty costume was unveiled at the 2008 Spring Carnival. The Scottish terrier breed is known for its keen, alert and intelligent expression. Its temperament is described as determined and thoughtful while its physical aspects exemplify strength, power and agility in a small package. Many of these traits are also apparent throughout the university, making the Scottish terrier a natural choice for Carnegie Mellon's mascot. Fun Fact Share Facebook Twitter Email Print Carnegie Mellon University © 2024 Official Site of Carnegie Mellon Athletics. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of use 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412) 268-1236 Learn about the site developer