Tartan Facts -  Carnegie Mellon University Athletics Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Search Composite Search Sports Men's Sports Basketball Basketball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Cross Country Cross Country Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Football Football Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Golf Golf Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Soccer Soccer Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Swimming & Diving Swimming & Diving Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Tennis Tennis Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Track & Field Track & Field Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Women's Sports Basketball Basketball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Cross Country Cross Country Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Golf Golf Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Soccer Soccer Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Softball Softball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Swimming & Diving Swimming & Diving Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Tennis Tennis Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Track & Field Track & Field Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Volleyball Volleyball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Inside Athletics Annual Report Camps/Clinics Cheerleading Diversity and Inclusion General News Green Practices Hall of Fame Hazing Prevention Kiltie Band Mission Statement Sports Performance Staff Directory Strategic Plan Student-Athlete Handbook Tartan Athletics Club Tartan Facts Student Experience The Tartan Experience ADPI Student-Athlete Group Black and Latinx Athlete Coalition Queer Athlete and Ally Collective Mentoring Program Plaidvocates SMART Program Student-Athlete Advisory Council Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow Add Your Info to Our Recruiting Database Facilities CMU Soccer Field Facility Hours Facility Reservations Game Day at Carnegie Mellon Gesling Stadium Highmark Center for Health, Wellness and Athletics Jared L. Cohon University Center Swimming & Diving Pool Tennis Courts Tepper Fitness Center Varsity Weight Room Visiting Team Brochure Wiegand Gym Recreation Giving Shop Inside Athletics Tartan Facts Who founded Carnegie Mellon University? Carnegie Technical Schools was founded in 1900 by Andrew Carnegie. Twelve years later it became known as the Carnegie Institute of Technology. In 1967, the school merged with Mellon Institute and became what is known today as Carnegie Mellon University. What is a Tartan? The Carnegie Mellon athletic teams are nicknamed the "Tartans" as a nod to Andrew Carnegie's Scottish heritage. A tartan is often misrepresented as a fierce warrior from either the Asian tundra or Scottish highlands. In actuality, a Tartan is a twilled woolen fabric with a plaid design. It is of Scottish origin and consists of stripes of various colors and widths against a solid ground, denoting a particular family lineage. The school's founder, Andrew Carnegie, was born in Dunfermline, Scotland, in 1835. Carnegie came to the United States in 1848 and founded Carnegie Technical Schools in Pittsburgh in 1900. The Scottish terrier mascot performer sports Carnegie tartan attire, while the graphic mascot is wearing a plaid scarf around its neck. So what's the difference between tartan and plaid? You'll know it's a tartan if... • "It's a check or pattern in a variety of colours in woven fabric in which bands of colour are repeated in equal proportion in warp (running lengthwise) and weft (running across)." • "Each stripe of the warp crosses every stripe of the weft, so when vertical and horizontal stripes of the same color cross, the result is solid color at the point of intersection." • "The arrangement of colored threads is the same in the warp as in the weft." You can find our official tartan on various items in the University Store . Source: "Tartan: Romancing the Plaid," by Jeffrey Banks and Doria De La Chapelle Official Mascot? More than a century after Carnegie Mellon University opened its doors, an official mascot finally made its mark. Although students have dressed as a Scottish terrier — typically referred to as Scotty — for 50 years, it wasn't until 2007 that Carnegie Mellon officially welcomed the Scottish terrier as the university's first mascot. In keeping with tradition, students, faculty, staff and alumni voted to name the new official mascot Scotty. But it's not just the costumed mascot that voters named. The live dog is also known as Scotty to the Carnegie Mellon community. About Scotty | Celebrating Scotty | Performer Requests Department Quick Facts Name of School: Carnegie Mellon University City/Zip: Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Founded: 1900 Enrollment (undergrad): 6,982- Fall 2021 Enrollment (graduate and doctoral): 7,062 - Fall 2021 Alumni: 102,577 Nickname: Tartans Mascot: Scottie Dog School Colors: Cardinal and Gray Football Stadium and Track and Field: Gesling Stadium Capacity: 3,500 Surface: FieldTurf Basketball/Volleyball Gym: Wiegand Gymnasium Capacity: 500 Soccer Stadium: CMU Soccer Field Capacity: 250 Surface: FieldTurf Affiliation: NCAA Division III Conference: University Athletic Association | Presidents' Athletic Conference (Football Only) President: Dr. Farnam Jahanian Alma Mater, Year: University of Texas at Austin Athletic Director: Dr. Josh Centor Alma Mater, Year: Brandeis, 2004 Athletic Department Phone: 412-268-8054 Mailing Address:  5000 Forbes Avenue / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Share Facebook Twitter Email Print Carnegie Mellon University © 2024 Official Site of Carnegie Mellon Athletics. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of use 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412) 268-1236 Learn about the site developer