The Kiltie Band -  Carnegie Mellon University Athletics Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Search Composite Search Sports Men's Sports Basketball Basketball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Cross Country Cross Country Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Football Football Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Golf Golf Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Soccer Soccer Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Swimming & Diving Swimming & Diving Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Tennis Tennis Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Track & Field Track & Field Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Women's Sports Basketball Basketball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Cross Country Cross Country Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Golf Golf Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Soccer Soccer Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Softball Softball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Swimming & Diving Swimming & Diving Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Tennis Tennis Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Track & Field Track & Field Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Volleyball Volleyball Schedule Roster Twitter Facebook Instagram Inside Athletics Annual Report Camps/Clinics Cheerleading Diversity and Inclusion General News Green Practices Hall of Fame Hazing Prevention Kiltie Band Mission Statement Sports Performance Staff Directory Strategic Plan Student-Athlete Handbook Tartan Athletics Club Tartan Facts Student Experience The Tartan Experience ADPI Student-Athlete Group Black and Latinx Athlete Coalition Queer Athlete and Ally Collective Mentoring Program Plaidvocates SMART Program Student-Athlete Advisory Council Tartan Leaders of Tomorrow Add Your Info to Our Recruiting Database Facilities CMU Soccer Field Facility Hours Facility Reservations Game Day at Carnegie Mellon Gesling Stadium Highmark Center for Health, Wellness and Athletics Jared L. Cohon University Center Swimming & Diving Pool Tennis Courts Tepper Fitness Center Varsity Weight Room Visiting Team Brochure Wiegand Gym Recreation Giving Shop Inside Athletics The Kiltie Band The Kiltie Band began in 1908 with a group of just seven students dedicated to supporting Carnegie Tech football, and today's Kiltie Band continues a tradition of excellence originated over a century ago. The Band took the field for its first official performance on November 25th, 1922, on what would have been Andrew Carnegie's 87th birthday. The Kiltie Marching Band consists of musicians and colorguard and plays at all Carnegie Mellon home football games. There is a new show every week with music ranging from traditional marches and oldies to current pop tunes and jazz standards. After football season, the Kiltie Concert Band plays a holiday concert and two spring concerts, including a performance at Carnegie Mellon’s Spring Carnival. Additionally, a part of the band gets together and acts as a pep band for the basketball teams. The Kiltie Band is a campus organization recognized by Student Senate and administered by the Department of Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation. Membership is open to all members of the campus/community without audition. Participants must do their best to promote the success of the ensemble through attendance, attitude, and dependability. FAQs Q: When are rehearsals? A: Football season: Mondays and Thursdays from 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. and Game Day 9:30-11:00a.m. Concert Season: Mondays and Thursdays from 5:30-6:30 p.m. Location is the CUC Studio Theater. Q: When are performances? A: The Kiltie Band performs at all home football games, a holiday concert, and two spring concerts. Times and dates for all performances are announced at the first practice. Q: Are there auditions? A: No, any member of the campus community with music experience is able to join the Kiltie Band! Q: Do I have to memorize music? A: No, the music is changed for every show. You should invest in a good and trusty lyre. Q: When is the first rehearsal? A: On the first day of class (Monday) at 5:30 p.m. in the CUC Studio Theater. If you have questions, please email the Direcator at jolisar@andrew.cmu.edu . Q: Can I borrow a school instrument? A: There are several Kiltie-owned instruments available for your use. Loans begin at 4:30 p.m. before the first rehearsal. Q: What do they wear under those kilts? A: Join and you’ll find out! For more information, visit the Kiltie Band website . Interested in Joining? Please email the following information to Kiltie Band Director Jeremy Olisar. Name High School Address at Carnegie Mellon (if known) Home address Cell number Home number Whether you plan on being in the band or colorguard If in the band what instrument(s) you play Whether you need to borrow an instrument or equipment To see and hear the band in action, visit our YouTube channel . Share Facebook Twitter Email Print Carnegie Mellon University © 2024 Official Site of Carnegie Mellon Athletics. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of use 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412) 268-1236 Learn about the site developer